computer vision explained in five
minutes hi everybody if you're looking
to start your career as a computer
vision professional from scratch then
you are in the right place computer
vision or CV is a branch of computer
science that empowers machines to see
recognize and process images just like
humans computer vision is in fact a
multidisciplinary field it could be
called a subfield of artificial
intelligence Ai and machine learning and
ml computer vision makes use of General
learning algorithms and may require the
use of specialized methods this diagram
shows the relationship between
artificial intelligence and computer
vision being a multi-disciplinary field
of study can seem messy for a beginner
the reason for this is some techniques
are borrowed and reused from an
assortment of engineering and computer
science Fields understanding the content
of digital images is the main objective
of computer vision this might seem easy
but it's not so because computers are
not the same as humans they don't have
the gift of vision and perception while
seeing and perceiving the world around
them comes naturally to humans that's
not the case with
[Music]
computers how do computer vision
algorithms work the computer vision
algorithms used today are based on
pattern recognition they typically rely
on convolutional neural networks or CNN
computers are first trained on an
enormous amount of visual data in this
step computers process images and label
the various objects on them they also
find patterns in those objects for
instance if we send a million images of
cats the computer will first analyze all
the images it will then identify
patterns that are similar to all cats
and at the end of the whole process
create a model cat as a result the
computer can accurately detect whether
or not a particular image is a cat each
time we sended
pictures the unprecedented growth of
computer vision images dominate the
internet today they are everywhere
social media e-commerce stores travel
sites and more but along with an
enormous amount of visual data over 3
billion images are shared every day we
also have easy access to the computing
power needed to analyze this data
computer vision is a booming field due
to the latest advancements in this field
it's true that the field of computer
vision has grown exponentially in the
last few years alone new hardware and
advanced algorithms have ensured that
the accuracy rates for object
identification are high in less than a
decade the Improvement in the accuracy
percentage has been phenomenal it's gone
up from 50% to 99% making today's
systems more accurate than humans it's
an accepted fact that computers react
much more quickly than humans to visual
inputs the applications of computer
vision the earliest experiments in
computer vision began in the 19 1950s
computer vision was however first put to
commercial use only in the 1970s to
differentiate typed text from
handwritten text but today computer
vision is a reliable and mature
technology that generates huge cost
savings and saves time from defect
detection to Intruder detection mask
detection to tumor detection crop
monitoring to plant monitoring vehicle
classification to traffic flow analysis
and from customer tracking to theft
detection the applications of computer
vision are truly varied computer vision
is used extensively in the following
Fields retail and Manufacturing
Transportation Insurance media
agriculture Health Care Sports banking
augmented reality and mixed reality home
security and content management and
Analysis the most popular computer
vision applications include object
classification recognizing the broad
category of an object in a photograph
object
identification identifying the type of
object in a photograph object detection
detecting the location of an object in a
photograph object verification verifying
the presence of an object in a
photograph object Landmark detection
detecting the key points for an object
in a photograph object segmentation
segmenting the pixels that belong to an
object in an image and object
recognition recognizing the objects in a
photograph and pinpointing their
location your path to computer vision
Mastery we have an in-depth course on
the AI Sciences platform that covers
computer vision we also have a short
course on computer vision for beginners
name of the course computer vision
Theory and projects in Python for
beginners 18 sections you'll learn the
Core Concepts of the computer vision
field in this course the important
elements of this course are the two
Hands-On projects in the concluding
section change detection in CCTV cameras
and smart
DVRs name of the second course mastering
computer vision Theory and projects in
Python 323 lessons in this in-depth
course you'll learn to master the basic
concepts of computer vision first next
you'll move onward to advanced concepts
if you're interested in learning more
about becoming a computer vision
professional then be sure to check out
our courses at the first link in the
description subscribe and turn on
notifications so you don't miss more
videos helping you to start your data
science and AI career and more check out
this playlist of our data science and
computer vision lessons and see you in
the next video take care
[Music]
