[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
what
good afternoon everyone it's fantastic
to see you all here today I'm hes mataru
PR head at UPS CSA Student Chapter and
I'm excited to welcome you to the third
session of our Azure AI engineer
associate boot camp before we begin I
have some exciting news today we will be
announcing the winners of the best blog
Ora page for the previous session so
stay tuned until the end to find out who
has
won this
session this session is all about
creating computer vision Solutions with
a AI Vision this will give you a deep
dive into how you can leverage a your AI
Vision to build intelligent applications
that process and analyze visual data
thank you all for joining us and let's
get ready for another another enriching
experience we are privileged to have
aditta Pand with us today Aditya is a
cloud products associate advis Labs with
a strong background in Cloud
Technologies with AI his expertise will
help us navigate the exciting world of
computer vision showing us how to
implement AI Vision capabilities in our
Solutions without further Ado let me
hand it over to adya over to you
sir thank you hes thank you so much and
uh good morning to each and everyone I
know it's 12: PM but I think on a
weekend it is still a morning for
everybody so good morning each and
everybody uh thank you so much for
joining in today's session and uh I
don't think on a weekend this is a uh
there can be a better start of the
weekend than organizing the session and
learning something new right so I think
weekend should be uh you know should be
for learning something new right so
today uh we will be learning a lot of
new things in this session and uh the
main thing in this session would be to
creating computer vision Solutions with
aure AI vision and if I give give you my
my brief introduction then uh as hes has
already uh given beautiful introduction
and I thank thank V hes for this so if I
talk about myself my name is adya Pand
and I'm A Cloud products associate at
Wiz laabs I have been doing handson on
Azure for past three years and I have
gained a very good experience on
Microsoft asure and today I'll be
showing you how we can integrate
different services with computer vision
or aure AI Vision so before uh coming to
the uh PPT presentation and starting the
session I would like to tell each and
everybody of you those who are attending
this session I will be talking about
many use cases in today's session right
and whenever I give you some use cases
after my use cases is it will be you who
will be just uh you know dropping one of
the use cases which will come to your
mind that how what else can be done what
else can be uh the feature of that
service what else can be uh analyzed
through that service so you will be also
dropping some of the use cases in the
comment section and I would like to see
that now let's get started with the
session uh please let me know if my
screen is visible to everybody
yes it is visible okay so I've given you
my brief introduction uh I am a cloud
products associate Adlabs and today
we'll be talking about creating computer
vision Solutions with aure AI Vision
right so just moving to the introduction
of computer vision and AI first before
going to Azure AI Vision so if I talk
about computer vision what what exactly
a computer vision is so with the name
itself you would be able to to
understand what exactly the meaning of
this name computer Visions means there
is a computer there's a system which is
acting as a vision for you
right so computer vision is basically a
branch of artificial intelligence right
which deals with uh uh different kind of
you know anal analyzing different kind
of images and videos and uh you know
deciding uh
the based on the visual inputs it will
decide you it will give you some uh you
know decisions like what is there what
is not there what should be the next
step what should not be the next step
right and if I talk about AI using AI in
computer vision so AI actually helps
with you know machine learning and deep
learning to train the computer vision
system every day after every set of data
right as because is a cloud-based model
and it works on machine learning and
deep learning
it's gives uh it it get trained every
time whenever uh there is a feed of data
given to the computer vision it will get
trained to you know to reach the
accuracy level level and if you talk
about the real world application for
computer vision is uh we can you know
now I'm talking about applications I'll
be talking about four applications here
and the fifth application you will be
dropping in the comments okay so the
first application can be
Healthcare right how computer vision can
be beneficial to Healthcare Systems in
healthcare you see uh you know patients
do x-rays patients do city scan MRIs
right so computer vision as per a
pre-trained model or the model given
model trained by you it can analyze the
uh you know anomalies in the x-rays or
city scan it can give you the solution
or it can tell you where is the problem
in that x-ray right so this is
Healthcare System can use it another
real word application would be retail
okay how this can be used in retail we
can use this retail as a product
recognition system right you can just
you know scan a product or give a
product to the computer vision it will
give you the details of the product it
will it will tell you all the
applications all the benefits all the
limitations of that product right
another thing is security and
surveillance right so so how let's say
let's take an example for this let's say
you run a supermarket okay and you are
the owner of that market and every day
thousands of people are visiting your
store right now what will happen it it
will get difficult for you to manage
thousands of crowd uh every day in your
store because you know uh you have a
limited space in your store and people
are in a large number now what you can
do you can set up a computer vision in
your store to check the threats and
security uh issues in your store let's
say let's take another example let's say
uh one day there is a person coming in
your store and he has surpassed the
security checks okay uh he has crossed
the security security security check and
your guard could not identify that that
this person is uh having a knife in his
pocket now at a moment that person is
you know taking that knife from his
pocket now what will happen your
computer vision system will identify
that okay this person is holding a knife
and you have trained your computer
vision in such a way that whenever you
see any let's say any harmful uh objects
in your video right it will just turn on
the siren or it will give you a message
that there is a knife there there is a
person who is holding a knife in in your
Supermarket or it will then it will turn
the sil uh siren on right so this is how
you can increase the security so this is
one of the examples I have given you can
you know think on yourself how this can
be uh implemented in many ways for the
security and uh
surveillance thing now another thing is
autonomous vehicles how this can be
implemented in autonomous vehicles is uh
let's say you are going uh somewhere uh
in your vehicle and there is person
standing on the road so now your
computer vision system will identify
that is a person standing on the road
and it will you know start applying
brakes automatically or let's say you
have missed a road sign there is a road
sign on the road side and you have
missed that but your computer version
system is analyzing each and everything
whenever you are traveling through your
car in your car right and whenever there
is any sign comes on the road side it
will give you a message that there is a
road sign and it will also tell you this
road sign is for what on that uh
decision or on that input given by the
computer vision to you you can identify
or you can decide what action you are
going to take right so this is a brief
introduction of computer vision and AI
so computer vision is a branch of AI
right computer vision is I I won't say
that this is directly related to
Microsoft Azure but it is a branch of AI
which is implemented by Microsoft Azure
and that is called as azure AI Vision
right under Azure AI Vision we will be
learning about computer vision and uh
custom Vision okay now let's move into
the next slide and we'll have some brief
introduction of isure AI Vision I've
already told you so this is a
cloud-based service that helps uh build
and deploy computer vision application
right it will analyze your image it can
you know extract information from images
it can extract information from your
documents right it can also extract
information from your uh realtime videos
it can process videos and extract
information from that as well right what
can be the key cap key capabilities of
azure AI vision is it will do the image
classification right it can extract
information from images and not only one
information but different kind of
information it can give you the metadata
for your image right it will also detect
uh the objects present in the image it
will also extract the text from your
images or videos okay how Industries can
use azurea Vision right so Industries
can use in manufacturing let's say
quality control and finance can use uh
as a document processing uh solution for
for their uh Financial let's say banks
are there right uh you have a uh
physical document you have a hard copy
which is written by you and not typed on
your system right so even there is a
document which is written by you it can
help you extract data from that right so
this is how how beautiful this system
is in a smart cities uh it can be useful
for traffic monitoring it can tell you
uh where is the traffic right at what
place traffic is more at what what place
traffic is less so that you can you know
divert from the uh more traffic area to
the less traffic area right so this is
how asure AI vision is helpful to you
know give solutions to your systems or
to your use cases uh in different
scenarios now let's moving to the uh
another point where we will be talking
about the traditional approaches and uh
you know advantage of advantages of the
modern approach of Aid driven
Vision So In traditional approaches
approaches what used to happen was you
know uh everything was hardcoded right
the traditional methods used to rely on
uh rule based system so what is Rule
based system is you have to write rules
hard code rules for each and everything
let's say for example you want to
analyze edges in an image to analyze
edges in an image you need to hard code
that right so for everything there is
hard code required right and you know in
AI driven Vision we use machine learning
right through machine learning every day
your your data set your model gets
trained and you know it is just
approaching towards accuracy and but in
traditional method it is very difficult
to you
know uh reach to that level of
accuracy even uh in traditional methods
it is very difficult to you know uh to
apply this uh traditional method AI
driven Vision I mean uh the traditional
method to your systems because it
actually gets difficult and sometime
what happens is uh in traditional method
it gets difficult to identify images
what kind of images let's say there are
two images which are overlapping now
your
traditional uh system will get will find
it difficult to identify the images when
two images are overlapping another
another example where traditional
systems can fail or can give you less
accuracy is in low light
conditions right in low light conditions
if you have not trained your if you have
not hardcoded your traditional methods
properly with with the atmost accuracy
then it is not going to give you
accurate uh outputs in low light
conditions right but this is not the
case in AI driven Vision the first thing
uh you need you don't need to take care
of storage as it is on cloud you just
need to give data set whatever size of
data set you have you can just give it
to uh this uh system AI driven vision
and it will just keep on training from
the data sets every day whenever it uh
it has an encounter with data okay it
gets trained automatically through
machine learning and deep learning right
and it will reach to the accuracy level
so that's the flexibility AI driven
Vision gives you right and uh uh you
know uh it also improved the accuracy
with the large data sets that I already
covered and if we talk about the
advantages of azure AI Vision I've
already told you the advantage but here
are few more advantages these are we can
easily integrate this with other aure
services sorry we can easily integrate
with Azure uh Azure services that is uh
let's take an example uh you can use
blob storage with your Azure AI Vision
you can use Azure functions you can use
use Azure logic apps with your Azure AI
Vision you know to just uh create a
system or create a logic to to um
make it serverless right you can use
your functions to make it serverless
right and these are also scalable and
flexible because these are hosted on
cloud and in uh Aid driven Visions they
are pre-trained model on on most of the
data sets there are few use cases where
you know uh it's up to you where you
want your use cases to be identified uh
by the as Vision then you need to train
that model you need to train your own
model create your own model and train it
and then it will work for you right but
in most of the cases the AI vision is
already pre-trained right we will see in
the handson session further and uh we
will see uh how these things happen and
uh how AI vision is helpful in an
analyzing images extracting uh data from
the images right moving to the next
topic we will be having some uh overview
of AI vision service uh the key
components are image analysis so in
image analysis uh we identify image uh
in image analysis what AI Vision can do
is it can give you the tags of the
images right uh let's say there are four
things in your image four kind of fruits
it will give you the tags let's say
fruits are there it will give you tag as
Apple Orange right it will also identify
the objects what are what all objects
are present in your images let's say
apple let's say orange let's say banana
okay it will all also generate a caption
for your image right let's say there is
a image there are mountains or there
there are mountains and uh uh there are
homes available in the image right seen
in the image so it will generate a
beautiful caption for you for that
specific image right uh it can be
helpful in OCR optical character
recognition means it will uh extract
text from your image let's say You have
given an image to the aurei vision and
there are text written on the images so
what it it will do is it will extract
the text from your images and it will
digitalize your you know uh the data
right how it works uh you can use a
pre-rain model to analyze visual data
and you can also customize it through
custom Vision you can give your own data
set you can train your data train your
model and then after that after training
your model you can just give uh any kind
of object or you can you know Implement
in uh in your SDK uh if you want a
custom train model okay uh you can
easily integrate with other Azure
Services which I have already
covered now uh let's move to the next
slide uh we'll be seeing the basics of
image analysis uh what exactly it
detects and when to use image analysis
so what exactly detects uh I have
already covered uh you know object in
object it can Det anything car animal
Etc infus is an emotion let's say there
is an image and somebody is standing and
that person is very happy that person is
a smiling so that uh your AI Vision can
detect detect that this person is a
smiling you know this can detect
emotions and this can detect faces in
the images as well right this can also
detect text and handwriting let's say uh
you have a PDF document which is typed
so it can detect that as well if you
have a document which is handwritten
this can detect that as
well okay when to use image analysis you
it's up to you there are many use cases
where you can use is use it uh here are
few use cases which I have mentioned the
first one is automating automating uh
visual interpretations building
searchable image libraries and content
moderation right so these are some of
the use cases where you can use your uh
uh computer vision or AI Vision right
now moving to the next slide where we
will be understanding the uh OCR with
Azure AI Vision so what OCR is basically
OCR is optical character recognition so
with the name uh you can understand that
this is uh this is
just recognizing the characters present
in the images or videos right and the
accuracy of this OCR is is in such a way
that you know even uh if there are small
uh you know words written in a very
small size or very large size it can
identify each and everything right it
also supports multiple language so
that's the beautiful thing about it
right let's say English is the common
language we use in the in in in our
country or in other countries as well
but let's say in India Hindi is the NA
national language so if your document is
written in Hindi okay Hindi language
then also it can you know extract
information from images it can uh
summarize your document it can extract
uh meaningful information it can give
you metadata of your documents so this
is the beautiful thing about aure AI
vision and see everything is pre-trained
right let's say there is a document
where you have written date uh let's say
user ID let's say your ID uh government
ID number it will extract that it will
give you that right and what is the uh
benefit of this what is the application
of this again I'm telling you three
applications but the fourth application
will be dropped by you in the comments
and I would be happy to check that after
I finish my presentation so keep on
thinking how you can use your computer
vision models how you can use Azure AI
Vision that are pre-trained and uh you
can build Solutions out of that so this
is the main model motive of this session
that we will be Building Solutions we'll
be talking about Solutions of computer
vision of AI Vision in what all areas we
can implement it what all things we can
extract from it right now I'll be
talking about application of OCR so the
first application is digitizing printed
materials right let's say you have a
hard copy right what it'll do it will do
it will just scan your hard copy and it
will digitalize for you
now you can keep that in your phone
there are many applications which are
already there which does this task which
you know uh you you must have used uh
many applications for this task but this
is one of the applications right which
uh uh which is digitizing printed
materials even not digitizing you can
you know extract meaningful information
and you can digitize that as well you
can keep that in a secret folder or you
can uh just you know throw your document
written document and whatever the
meaningful information you need you can
just extract from it through OCR and you
can keep that in your mobile phone right
another application is automating
invoice
processing how this work let's say uh in
your Supermarket you are going and uh
you have bought some some things from
the supermarket and and now uh they want
to give you the invoice right so what it
will do it will you know scan the
objects scan the products automatically
and it will generate the invoice right
here are many applications which you can
Implement even in Azure AI Services
there are many uh uh you know Services
which are available and you all you can
Implement all these things for
example let's say in your Supermarket
I'm just thinking I'm just thinking how
we can Implement different things in
your Supermarket you have bought
something and your Supermarket is
completely
automated right you went there and uh
what you did is uh uh through custom
Vision what you have did is there is a
scanner available you scan your product
and all the products will be listed
after that there is
a
uh voice detection you have enabled
there you have used voice detection
feature so what you will do is uh you
will uh uh maybe speech to text you are
using right
you will tell your name and it will just
write it there right you will whatever
information they need you will speak it
out right and all the informations will
be listed in the invoice the invoice
will be generated automatically and it
will give you a print out see how
hasslefree it has become through AI if
we start using AI in every field it will
become hasslefree it will become easy
for people right so that's how we can
Implement OCR right another uh uh very
uh meaningful uh application of OCR is
reading license
plates now let's say uh there is a
vehicle which has hit you and they just
uh ran away now what you can do you can
just scan the number plate of that
vehicle immediately and it will give you
all the information of that number plate
the O information of owner the address
of the owner each and everything right
and then you can keep it with you you
can just go to the police station you
can file the FI you can give all the
information they can even they can
identify let's say you do not have all
the access to know the address and
mobile number of that person who has
just ran away but police has that access
so you can just give a small data about
that number plate or about that person
they can identify them and they can just
do their work they can take the legal
actions this is how we can Implement OCR
in different ways now moving to the next
thing uh we'll be talking about custom
Vision models in a your AI Vision right
so there are two types of model which we
have discussed but now we'll be
discussing in details there are two
types of model one is pre-built model
another one is custom models pre-built
model is already on Azure AI services
and uh custom model uh is trained by you
right you will give a you will have a
set of data set you will give it to the
Azure AI vision and it will train the
data set and then after that you can use
that data set to identify things okay
now what are pre-built
models so uh as it is written here Asar
AI Vision provides model that can detect
General objects face and text okay it is
useful for quick deployments when your
use cases align with the default
categories let's say uh again let's take
an example of supermarket in your
Supermarket it is all generalized okay
okay and all the use cases which are
available in your pre-built model
matches with your demand okay that you
also need that in your Supermarket then
you can use pre-built model
okay uh what can be the limitations
limitations uh are uh it has limited
flexibility for a specific or unique
object detection needs right so it is a
general model so let's say there is
something which is unique to you only
only you know only you want that to be
identified by the computer vision then
at that time you cannot use pre-train
model you have to train your custom
model and then you can use that for your
solution right now coming to the custom
models it allow you to tailor the model
for specific object detection let's say
in your Supermarket let's take an unique
thing there is a brand only made by you
okay there are spices which are which
are made in your company
you own that company now that brand is
not available
on this pre-built models right so to
identify whether a person is carrying
your brand or not you need to train your
custom model you need to build your own
custom model where you will be giving a
data set where where your brand is there
right so now what will happen is at this
point of time you'll be using custom
models which will identify as per your
data set which will identify whether
that person or whether that object is is
of your brand or not right so this is
like they both have uh uh different
different useful features they they both
can be used in you know different
scenarios so I think it is clear to you
guys where you can use pre-built model
and where you can use custom models
another thing is uh use cases where
predefined model falls short such as
identifying custom objects logos or
specialized object in your domain so
this we have already discussed uh key
advantages is high flexibility right
okay so you can
train whatever model you want right or
you can train for whatever thing you
want train the model on your own data
set to recognize domain specific items
right domain specific means uh it is
about your domain what you want to
identify using custom Vision right so I
hope this topic is clear to you guys uh
uh on what are pre-build model mod what
are custom models how we can use them in
different
scenarios now moving to the another
topic so we have talked about uh custom
models that there are custom models
which we can train but the question
arises how we can train it right so this
is the main question and I think in
theory we learn a lot of things that
okay we can train a model we can use
that model for our use cases for for uh
uh in our scenarios but but then when it
comes to training a model practically I
think there many people fail there we
don't know how to train a model how to
train our custom Vision model so today
we'll be understanding how we can train
the model so right now I'll be telling
you the steps to train a model and after
that we'll be doing a demo session demo
session where we will be understanding
how we can exactly train a model on
Microsoft Azure okay so the step one is
collect and label images what you'll do
here you will gather a set of data set a
large data set okay you will gather a
data set let's say uh I'll be showing
you some I'll be giving you some example
of data sets as well uh let's say you
have collected a data set of
cars thousands of cars right and you
want to identify the color of car okay
the color of each car let's say you you
don't want to identify the brand and uh
the model of the car but let's keep it
simple we we are identifying the color
of the car so what we can do is we can
collect different cars of different
colors okay then we will label that how
we label that uh there is one step when
we uh you know upload images on custom
Vision model there is an option comes
for labeling so we can directly label
that image there but manually uh uh how
we label it we will just Mark that image
in a box okay and then we label that
that this is a blue color this is a red
color Okay red color blue color white
color gray color okay so this is how
label it so you need to collect the
images and then you need to label it
okay so here the first step first step
is gather a data set of image showing
the object you want to recognize okay
another one is label the images to
categorize them
accurately so the tip here is use images
from different angles and lighting
conditions so this is very important if
you want a good accuracy level okay you
need to take different angles you but in
color it won't be required because uh uh
it will be easy for the uh AI model to
identify the colors because you know
cars are in big size and you can just uh
click picture from one angle
or just one angle is required in that
and you can label that right so this is
the first step collect label images now
coming to the Second Step upload images
to as your computer vision uh sorry
custom Vision okay so you will be loging
to the custom Vision studio and then you
will create a project upload your
labeled images uh and then you will uh
choose the right domain or uh you will
choose what what things you are going to
do with this uh domain right so I'll be
showing you through hands on how to do
it so you have collected the image you
have labeled them now you have uploaded
it to custom Vision now coming to the
step three you will train that model
okay nothing much is required after you
have uploaded the image you have labeled
them you have given uh uh the right
domain for that image now you need to
train it after training is done you need
to test it and deploy so see how simple
is this right this is that simple that
you can easily if you have a data set
you can easily train this model you can
easily train your custom model
right sorry so this is that
simple and uh there is one information
which I would like to tell you on custom
Vision uh let's say you want to train a
model for a single type of data set
let's say uh in your data set there are
white color cars there are red color
cars there are black color cars right to
train a model the minimum of 15 objects
are required okay 15 images are required
to train a model let's say if you want
to train a model for white car then
minimum 15 images should be there okay
if there are 14 images you will get an
error your your custom Vision will say
that there are no not sufficient images
to train it so at least there should be
15 images this is a very important
question this can be asked asked in your
AI engineer associate exam that what are
the minimum number of images required to
train a model so the answer should be 15
okay it's 15 not 550 it's 15 so answer
should be 15 now we have understood
theoretically that how we can uh train a
custom Vision model right now coming to
the next step the realtime video
analysis okay we have understand we have
understood the things related to images
now we'll be understanding things
related to realtime video
analysis so uh your computer vision is
also helpful in analyzing the videos in
real time let's say uh we have taken an
example of your
Supermarket okay so let's uh start from
scratch what exactly happens when there
is a real-time video analysis going on
okay so first we will understand from
this uh the use cases can be security
surveillance and traffic monitoring and
Retail okay uh how Azure AI Vision
handles the video this we'll be talking
in some detail
DET you uh must have recorded videos
from your mobile phones okay so what
exactly happens can can anybody tell me
what exactly happens in the
background if there are comments I would
request moderator to you know um just
show those comments on the screen
U just one
minute I want to see
okay you guys can drop your comments uh
I'll see it later so uh I'll tell you
what exactly happens when you record a
video your video is captured in frames
what exactly happens is your camera
takes pictures let's say you are
recording a video you are moving from
this side to this side so what happens
is uh your camera is clicking pictures
continuous pictures from this side to
this side and that pictures are merged
in such a way that pictures when you
play that video that pictures moves in
such a way that you feel that there is a
video running on your mobile screen but
actually the images are moving you uh
let's take an example beautiful example
you must have seen that video uh where a
person draws you know characters in in
that small
diary at every page there are different
characters okay and at different angles
okay now what happens is when that
person uh just blows The Diary in such a
way in one go you will see that
character moving right so this is
exactly happens in video analysis when
your computer vision is analyzing a
video it is capturing
frames okay then what happens is in in
those frames it identifies what is
there let's say in micros seconds it has
Capture One frame and it will will
identify uh that there are three persons
standing there is something uh kept on
the desk there is something there is a
um there is a bucket in the store there
are some soaps in the stores right so
what happens is it process video frames
in real time right so this is the what
this is what the first point is uh
talking about it processes videos and
frames in real time and then it analyzes
we will all Al be seeing how you can
analyze videos right let's say uh you
have given a video to custom Vision
right computer vision and you want to
see uh let's say there is there is
something which you want to see whether
that is available in that video or not
so you will write that thing in the uh
in the search box and it will just
extract from your video that image or
that object and it will show you whether
it is available in that video or not
right so this is also we'll be
discussing we'll be also doing a demo
for this uh I hope you have understood
this thing that how realtime video
analysis happens
okay now coming to the next Point
integrating integrating with Azure
functions and automations now we have
talked about we can we can integrate
computer vision Azure AI Vision with
different services available on
Azure so what are the benefits of it
right why you should automate it right
the first thing thing is trigger actions
based on image or video analysis results
automatically okay and uh the use cases
can be upload uh and imaged to the Azure
blob storage let me explain it to
you why you should first first uh uh
thing is why you should do it why you
should Implement different services with
uh computer
vision the importance is it will
automate things for you right let's say
in our computer vision we we we are
doing it manually let's say we are
uploading an image and it is identifying
things for us it is giving us tags it is
giving us captions or it is just
extracting all the metadata from it okay
but now uh if you guys are aware of
azure services like blob storage aure
function Azure logic app and the custom
Vision which we are talking right right
now I'll just give you a scenario how
this can be helpful to you
let's say you are implementing all the
four Services okay and you want to
automate each in everything right let's
say you have a website okay you have a
website now what what happened uh what
happens is uh a person comes and uploads
a image on the
website so that's that website is
actually something where people can
upload their captured photographs and uh
that is is actually a directory you have
created a directory for the
photographers and they can upload their
images on on your website now what
happens is what the what the thing is
you want to
check that there should be appropriate
image right there should not be an image
which can be harmful or which have uh uh
inappropriate content okay now what you
can do is let's say person comes uploads
an image on your website now that image
goes to the blob store
okay now you have connected your blob
storage to computer vision okay means uh
let's say your Azure function is also
working so whenever image gets uploaded
to The Blob storage the Azure custom
Vision API calls and then it analyzes
that image okay it extracts data from it
okay and it has extracted all the
important data or if you have your own
train model the custom model uh you can
use a custom model whether to identify
like what exactly you want to check in
the image so in that cases I think you
would be using custom models so it has
your API call have happened and your
custom model has identified whether that
image is appropriate or not appropriate
if that image is not appropriate what is
there in that image let's say it can be
killing of an animal that is not
appropriate right so killing of an
animal is not allowed that picture is
not allowed in your website site right
so your custom Vision will identify that
this picture has uh uh this this image
is not appropriate there is a there is
someone who is killing an animal which
is not not good at all now what will
happen there is a logic app you have
also created a logic app logic uh you
have also created Logics actions in your
logic app in logic app designer what
will happen is when your uh custom
Vision has identified the problem
your logic app triggers and then it will
send you an email it will send you an
email of the information of that person
the mail ID the name and what is there
in the image which is which is not
appropriate now on that action the
decision taken by your AI
model will be sent to you now you have
to take
action now you can directly reach out to
that person you can directly call that
person that delete that image this is
not appropriate for the
website I I hope you have understood how
this has automated a very big
task let's take another scenario let's
see let's take an example uh where you
have not implemented this automation you
have not implemented different asure
services with your with your computer
vision a person comes uploads an
image and uh now that image is there
okay now every day uh at the end of the
day you are going to your website and
you are checking how many images are
being uploaded today uh who all uploaded
these images and you are check checking
every single image
manually and you are checking whether it
is appropriate or not see you can just
imagine how time taking this action can
be right and then uh when you have
analyzed that this image is not
appropriate then you will be reaching
out to that person and then asking them
to remove but from the morning to the
evening the uh I I think many people
have already seen it and your ratings
the website ratings has been
decreased but if you are using your
computer vision your custom Vision you
are using different as your services and
you are integrating all these services
in in in your
solution then it becomes easy for you it
becomes easy it becomes uh like your
time is reduced you have a lot of time
to work for some other thing because
most of the things are getting done
automatically and at the end of the day
there are many options in your logic app
uh where you can set timers for emails
like for every two minutes you will get
an email or uh with every image upload
it will directly analyze that image uh
right and your logic app will trigger
and then it will send you an email with
all the data available in that image
right so your your manual job has been
vanished right so this is this is one of
the solutions I have discussed with you
this is how computer vision solution we
Implement computer vision solution using
Azure AI services using Azure AI vision
and that's the main motive of this
session that we are not only learning
how to you know analyze an
image I'm sorry we are not only learning
how to analyze an image how to just
directly go on your portal and and use
computer vision just give an image to
that uh service and it will just extract
uh the information from it no that's not
the thing we are going to do but the
thing is uh which we want is we want
solutions for our
system right so one of the solutions
which have which we have discussed is uh
let's say you have your website and you
have integrated many of your services to
create a solution for for your job
right for the job you want to be uh you
want to get done right so this is one of
the solutions we have discussed
similarly in many fields in many ways
you can use computer vision solutions
for your uh for your applications for
your system for your environment right
it can be used anywhere it can be used
in agriculture it can be used in health
care it can be used in maintaining
security right it can be used in
um road traffic it can be used for uh
for uh
laws to maintain laws right so there are
many ways I hope uh how we can integrate
uh things how we can integrate different
asour services to computer vision is
clear to you and the main most important
thing is please uh understand that if
you're not implementing not integrating
different services at one places at one
place then then it is it is not a good
idea right so please learn about other
services as well uh because this
computer vision can be a very useful
tool for you guys if you want to
integrate AI in your
system now moving to the next topic
which is very important you must have uh
um heard about responsible AI right so
when we do image analysis so there are
some cases where you know where you give
let's say if you give an image of a
celebrity to the AI it will not identify
it it will just deny because that
doesn't come under the terms and
conditions of responsible AI responsible
AI would not allow it for you right
so understanding responsib is also
important that uh uh if you are also
training your custom models you also
need to Define things uh where you know
all the responsibilities of the
important data can be taken care of
right and if we talk about the security
and best practices you need to ensure
whatever data you are giving to the AI
it should be
encrypted right and there should not be
any confidential information available
on the image on the document or in the
video or whatever uh whatever uh thing
you are giving to the AI whatever data
you are giving to the AI so this is very
important because you know you don't
know where your data is going you never
know like we are using many tools these
days uh where we just give a prompt
where we give our information and then
it will write things for you or it will
just design things for you but before
giving your information try to
understand or think about it when you
have given your own information your
confidential information to the AI where
that data is going right so it is always
a good choice or it will it will always
be a good decision for you to take take
care of your data do not share any
confidential things to the AI okay uh
let's say if you have a system you are
the administrator of your Microsoft as
your portal where you have some AI
Solutions deployed and now you want
other people to access it so always use
uh identity and access management and uh
give only limited permission to the
people or to the tenants who who who are
there uh you only give permission
whatever should be accessed by them and
not more than that right so this is also
best practices for this you need to
regularly audit and monitor usage right
you need to uh at the end of the day you
need to come to the a portal you need to
monitor what all happened uh you need to
monitor the usage you also need to
monitor the cost because uh what happens
is it has happened with me many times
and what happens is uh I just deploy a
service and then I leave it I do not
stop it or I do not delete it right so
it is it is important when a service uh
usage is done uh let's say that service
is no more required you should stop it
okay you should delete that service so
that it does not incur cost for you
extra cost for you right so we have
talked about uh the rbac role based
Access Control you need to set some IM
uh access controls IM IM roles for the
user so that they have limited access
uh your data should be encrypted uh in
transit and at rest so these are the
important security and best practices
when you are using artificial
intelligence or custom Vision or AI
Vision or any AI
tool now coming to the pros and cons of
azure AI Vision Pros can be we can
integrate it easily with other Azure
services this is flexible and scalable
because this is hosted on cloud and we
have pre-trained model for fast
deployments okay you you don't need to
train models for General things let's
say you want to identify animals so you
you don't need to train it because you
know the animals which are there in the
world I I don't think that uh this spre
trend model have any uh would have
missed that right so you can use this uh
pre-train model for fast deployments the
cons can be cost maybe a higher concern
so I already told you that if you are
not using a surface you need to
stop that service or you need to delete
that service because uh AI Services has
a bit higher cost okay let's say if you
have a small data set then you do not
need to worry but if you have a larger
data set to you know train then cost can
be a big factor so you need to take care
of each and everything you need to be
very active when you are training a
model and uh you need to monitor each
and everything on a daily basis right
complex custom models may require
significant training time yes uh if you
train a model I'll be showing you I'll
be showing you even the smallest model
take uh minimum 15 20 minutes or 15 or
or 30 minutes or or uh maybe 1 hour also
to train a model right so complex if you
have a complex custom models then it is
going to take some time to train that
okay and uh it has limited offline
capabilities you need to be uh you need
to require Cloud access if you are using
a or AI Vision
right now coming to the demo part uh
this is going to be very interesting for
you guys so uh be there and I'll will
show you uh in the demo we'll be uh
seeing how how things can be done the
first thing we'll be setting up the
Azure a vision resource second thing
will be we'll be doing image
analysis uh third thing will be we will
be implementing OCR and the fourth thing
will be we'll be training a custom model
I'll be showing you how you can train a
custom model if you want to have your
own uh
own own trained I mean customly trained
computer vision model okay and we at the
end we'll be also seeing how we can uh
analyze things from a realtime video
okay we'll be doing realtime video
analysis now let's come to the demo part
I have already logged into the ajob
portal if you search here
uh a your AI Services you will see that
uh there is a drop down that is AI
Services you will go there and then
today we are mostly talking about the
computer vision and custom Vision
computer vision is a pre-trained model
custom vision is a service where we can
train our own data set we can we will
just we will be giving data sets to it
and we can train it and we can test and
deploy it
okay first uh let's move to computer
vision okay how to create it we will
click on
Create and uh we will select the
resource Group we will give a name let's
say asure
AI
associate okay we will select the
pricing tier so right now we are going
to select a standard S1 and uh we will
just check this that we have
acknowledged all the terms and
conditions and then uh for the
networking thing uh let's let's uh keep
everything as default and we will click
on review plus
create then once the validation is
passed we will just create this service
and the service is going to take uh 3 4
minutes okay
create okay
okay now validation passed and we have
already created the resources now
deployment is in progress it will take
around 1 to two minutes to deploy the
service okay deployment is
done now we'll click on go to
Resource and here we have an option to
go to Vision
Studio we will click on
this okay now we are in the vision
Studio
you can see there are different options
for different kind of analysis we have
optical character recognition where it
will extract text text from images okay
we have spatial analysis like count
people in the area or detect whether
people whether a person has crossed a
line or detect when people enter or exit
a Zone this is a video retrieval in
summary okay this is Monitor social
distancing so see how beautifully this
is uh this has been done in uh the
pandemic uh this could have used as a AI
feature for different places let's say
for a shop for hospitals or for mall
right so uh first uh another one is uh
face analysis it will detect faces in
the image it will detect the liveliness
and it will uh uh portrait your image it
will also uh match your photo ID let's
say again let's take an example for your
super store
it will just match uh you know that
computer vision will scan your face and
it will also scan your ID ID card and it
will match whether this ID is yours or
not so that is again a very beautiful
feature now coming to image
analysis so for image analysis we have
different things available here we can
recognize products on shelves okay uh we
can customize model with images and uh
uh we can search photos with image
retrieval
image retrieval means uh from uh you
know from one image it will retrieve
different images and it will search
photos for you okay this is a very
interesting thing add dense captions to
images okay if we use this feature add
dense captions to the images then what
will happen is we will give an image to
the AI it will create an caption or it
will generate different captions for you
right uh we'll be using this one um
another one is remove background from
images uh it will remove background from
your image it will add uh this one is
add captions to images it will add
captions to your
images and uh so these captions will be
uh kind of smaller captions okay
generate a human readable sentence that
describe the content of the image and
this will generate generate human
readable con captions for all important
objects detected in your image okay so
what what is the difference between
dense caption and uh this this one this
caption so dense cap caption is
basically let's say your image has
different objects so it will create a
caption including
everything right if we talk about this
caption let's say there is an image
where single object is there so it will
cap it will generate a caption for that
okay for a single object uh detect
common objects in the images so when you
give an image to the computer vision it
will detect what all objects are present
let's say if this is a sample there is a
dog there is there is a house there is
home okay and extract common tags from
images it will extract tags tags means
dog home son
okay detect sensitive content in an
image this is also an important thing
okay see this feature you can use in
your website the example which I have
given okay you can use this feature and
you can detect sensitive content in in
an image if the sensitive content
available in this data set is uh
matching with your demand
if that is not matching you need to
train your custom
models uh you can create a smart cropped
images let's say there is a big image
and you want to crop a specific part so
the uh AI Vision will automatically crop
a specific part and it will give you a
relevant relevant thumbnail or re
relevant cropped image from that image
okay so these are all the services which
are used for image analysis right now we
are going to use this add dense captions
to
images
see uh
sorry okay so this is the uh page for
add dense captions to the images uh here
what you will do you will first
acknowledge that uh uh this is your
account and uh this are these are the
just uh default images which has given
which are given to this um Studio you
can use these images or also you can use
or you can browse a file from from your
own system okay we'll be doing this as
well uh this is analyzing this image
let's see what uh what analysis it gets
it gives us let's wait for some
time till then uh I would like to see if
there are any questions
okay no
questions hi everybody hi so excited I'm
also
excited right photos in the form of
frames are captured yes so uh that's why
it becomes easy for AI to analyze each
and everything in detail right right
let's say a video is moving continuously
then it would it will be difficult for
it to analyze things but if photos are
captured in images or in frames then it
will be easy for AI to analyze each and
every frame and extract information out
of it right uh hi SV yes uh these are
interesting solutions to avoid
cluttering yes exactly so you can use
these features uh in many things right
um let's see
okay it is still
analyzing let's try with the uh browsing
a file
okay let me give this thing to to the
AI I think there is something
okay browse the file let's give this
picture what is this
error I think there is some
problem if we use this
picture invalid resource
let's again open the vision studio and
try this again once
again uh we will use dense caption okay
we'll acknowledge
this choose a different okay we have not
selected the right resource so this was
a resource which I was already doing
some handson so this resource is already
selected so you know when you try when
you acknowledge this you need to choose
your your resource okay so the resource
uh Let me refresh
it okay so this is the resource which we
have created so we will select this and
we will confirm this now we will
acknowledge this and we will browse a
file we will select this
image perfect you see you have now dense
captions for it a group of apples in a
pile close up of a green apple and a red
apple close up of several apples close
up of green apples so these are the
different kind of captions you will get
and if you want to get this thing in
Json you can get this you can just see
this you will see this in Json format as
well right so there are two options
available to you know analyze and image
through uh Vision Studio the one option
is you can directly come to the jaob
portal and do it but if you want to
implement these things these services in
your solution then you will be
implementing it in your SDK okay for SDK
you will be having key uh I mean keys
and endpoints for the service you can
use those keys and endpoints in your SDK
and you can just I mean seemlessly
Implement all these services in your
system and in your system you will be
seeing this kind of solutions you will
be having Json format Solutions or you
can have this kind of uh you know direct
captions as well
uh let's
identify this one let's analyze this one
let's see what captions we have a man
driving a tractor in a farm see how
accurately it is giving a caption right
a man driving a tractor this is also an
accurate caption a blurry image of a
tree this is this is a different caption
for different object a man riding a
tractor right so for every caption it is
analyzing a different kind of thing the
first caption if you see here it is
analyzing the complete picture and it is
uh writing a caption out of I mean
including each and everything so if you
read the first caption it will say it
says a man driving a tractor in a farm
it has included Farm it has included man
it has included tractor right but the
second one a man driving a tractor but
it has not included farm right so this
caption is for this a specific thing
this a specific image a man and a
tractor right so it depends on you what
which caption you are going to use right
so it will give you some set of captions
which you can use and uh it becomes easy
for you to choose a caption as per your
need let's try some other image as well
let's try this one or or you want to see
some food is it a food or what uh it's a
food okay a person holding a spring of
Rosemary okay see this is included each
and everything in the picture a person
cutting a a sprig of Rosemary right this
is included only this part a person and
a rosemary right so accordingly you can
just pick the caption you need uh for
your resource okay now another thing is
uh we will be analyzing uh some other
thing as
well okay we'll be going to the vision
Studio again and now we are going to
analiz a video let's do
this so I uh already uploaded a video
here okay in advance and these are the
uh already available videos so this
video is regarding animals okay uh in
this video there are different kind of
animals right and this video has already
analyze
things uh if you want to see it from
scratch I'll show you let's do it from
scratch okay I've already downloaded a
video okay and uh this is that video so
you will upload this video and then it
will process that video it will see what
will happen is your video has already
some set of frames right so what this AI
Vision will do it will just separate all
those frames it will uh convert your
video into frames right now it will
analyze each and every frame it will
just detect what all things are there in
the video right so it is uh already in
process so let's wait for it
okay so I think the video has been
analyzed by the AI now what will happen
is let's stop this video this complete
video has been analyzed now you want to
check whether this video has Penguins or
not or let's check whether this video
has dogs or not so you will give your
tag
dogs and you will search see your AI has
identified that this video has dogs and
it will give you at what time frame that
dog is see this feature can be used in
your Supermarket okay we are taking just
one example in this whole lecture of uh
a computer vision solutions that is
Supermarket so again uh you can
implement this service in your
supermarket and uh uh your computer
vision will
uh uh I mean convert your video into
into frames and in in those frames if
you want to check whether uh a person
with with white shirt is there or not a
person with white shirt visited your
Supermarket or not you will just give
your tag you will just write your
specific moment in this in this search
bar and then it will it will show you
whether there was a person uh visited
wearing white shirt or not right so
that's that's see how useful it is right
let's see if there are penguins uh or
not
Penguins see they are penguins it will
give you different uh time frames so on
2 minute 18 second this is the Penguin
on 2 minute 17 second this was there on
2 minute 33 sorry on 33 second see pins
32 this 41 this see how beautifully it
has been done how beautifully it has
been analyzed by the AI
right uh what else let's check for some
other thing let's check for
Fox see Fox is also there in the video
okay so you just you you can just check
randomly or let's say you some time back
you've already seen a video and you want
to just recall whether that animal is
present in that video or not you can
just come here you can just give your
video to this uh computer Vision it will
analyze your video and you can search
here whether Fox is available in this
video or not right whether uh let's say
um uh your friend is there in in that
video or not okay whether someone is
there in your video or not so you can
search it you can just directly search
it after the video has been analyzed
okay what else what else we can
analyze let's try this um
tags let's try tags okay extract common
tags uh let's use this uh already
available image I'll use this it will
give you tags person clothing forniture
Indo table all the tags which can be
there okay now every tag has uh
probability of accuracy okay so the
probability of person is 99.6 60% means
the probability of person is higher
right see person is there in the image
clothing clothing probability is again
99.4% Furniture 98 indoor 96 see the
area is kind of indoor area uh there are
Furnitures available uh clothing is also
available there is a coffee table there
are human faces they are sitting see how
accurately it is giving you tags there
is couch there is laptop
there are people so people is a common
thing there is a man there is a
man wall wall is there group is there
yes exactly three people woman is there
coffee okay there is a cup
okay AI don't know whether that cup has
coffee or tea or any other um any other
thing so the probability is
64.8 C
that's the beautiful thing about AI it
is giving you the probability of an of a
tag uh that how much is the probability
or how much percentage
uh that that object is available in the
image or not so coffee 64.8 one but the
person's probability is 99 so the
accuracy is
99% but the accuracy
of coffee present in this image is 64%
right because AI don't know whether this
cup has coffee or tea right so as for
the accuracy uh people can understand
whether they should take decision on
these Stags or the content generated by
AI or not right if there is a better
probability uh uh I can take better
decisions using AI but the probability
is not good I cannot take better
decisions using AI right I cannot take
accurate decisions using
AI just use us AI let's say if this AI
has given me this tag and my friend is
asking tell me whether this image has
coffee or t or or whatever is there but
let's say I have not seen this image
okay I have my friend has not shown with
this image he's just saying okay there
is an image now I'll give that image to
your AI system your computer vision
system but you are not required to see
that image okay your AI will tell you uh
whether that image has coffee or not
okay my friend has given this image to
my uh train model or my computer vision
it has analyzed this image that image
and it has generated tags of that image
from that image okay different tags
hundreds of tags now my friend is asking
tell me if that image has coffee or
not okay I'll just see the tags of this
AI I'll see the probability of coffee
the probability of coffee is
64% I this is not guaranteed that this
image has a coffee or not but if the
probability of coffee is
99% I can say I can take a chance on
this I can say that yes that image has
coffee right so this is how you can
decide after your AI has decided
something how you can take decisions on
the uh outputs on the information your
AI has given you right I hope this these
things are clear to you uh now we will
be moving to another thing that is how
to train your own model okay let's go to
this uh service I'll I'll just close
this uh I will also recommend you guys
to uh just check out this this service
you just go on the aob portal you create
computer vision service and you just do
your hands on with with this you you
give any kind of image to it okay and
see how it is analyzing okay because
this is a very interesting part even if
you uh you can just do this in your free
time as well just for the fun
okay so I'll recommend everyone of you
to get some handson on this okay before
moving to the uh training the model
before moving to training model I'll
show you
uh how you can learn about the custom
Visions
okay so this event is sponsored by Wiz
laabs and
uh so all the winners at the end will be
getting some wizap subscriptions and I'm
also a cloud products associate at vlabs
so I know how these subscriptions can be
useful to you because the content
related to Azure which we have built
here that content is built by us only
okay we have designed the content in
such a manner that it will not miss any
any Concept in that uh in that
certification examination let's say you
want to prepare
for
ai102 we will go to
ai102 and you see there are 40 handson
Labs okay there are 129 video courses so
uh when you just check out this you will
go to handson
Labs okay and you will see that there
are numerous hands on Labs which will uh
demonstrate demonstrate different
capabilities of AI this will also help
you in understanding how you can use
these services in your SDK okay uh let's
say this is an image develop aurei
service application securely by using
aure keyal now it will it will just
demonstrate you that how you can use AI
service application and you can
integrate aure keyal with this see this
is the capability this is how we make
Solutions uh using custom Vision using
computer vision or using Azure AI Vision
right so let me go to the handson lab
sections we will get
started I am telling you this is one of
the best applications or one of the best
platform to prepare for any
certification exam you want to prepare
and uh if you are preparing for assure
certificate certification exam I can
guarantee you I can assure you on this
because we know what kind of content we
have prepared here and uh what kind of
sandbox what kind of challenges right
right let's say you are you have
performed a lab okay and uh you want to
do a challenge for it okay there is a
challenge there is a challenge and it
will give you some set of scen
scenarios okay uh it will give you some
set of scenarios and it will ask you to
fulfill that scenario or to find
solution for that scenario now what you
will do you will just uh
go there you will deploy Services as per
you and uh you will see whether you are
able to you know find a solution for
that service or not for this that
problem statement or not right and at
the end of the lab you will also be able
to validate whether you have created all
the required services or not in that lab
okay let's say
um let's check out this lab text
analysis with Azure AI content safety
okay
see the content this is the lab overview
uh this is the introduction of this lab
and we have also given the architecture
diagram means how you will be uh you
know how you'll be performing task what
task will be performed after what what
service right these are the task details
and when you go to the lab steps you
will see uh all the lab steps are given
there you will first create the
workspace and computer resource ources
and uh uh then you will create the Azure
AI content safety service then uh you
will create the environment variables
and then you will open the vs code so in
the vs code you will be able to
understand how you can you how using the
keys and endpoint of a service you can
Implement these services in your SDK
right so just keeping these things in
mind we have prepared these contents for
you guys so if you want to uh learn
about or if you want to prepare for aure
AI associate exam you can check out Wiz
laabs courses and uh the Hands-On Labs
available on this platform that's the
best resource you can uh you can have uh
let me also show you the challenges
which we have created in certification
uh you will select
ai102 let's check out this challenge
this challenge is about classify and
moderate text with aure content
moderator okay let's see uh what is
there in this challenge okay
these are the challenge overviews there
are prerequisites given that you you
must have knowledge of isi services and
you must have knowledge of aure content
moderator you you must have a la laptop
you must have access to internet
browsing and internet connection
internet browser and connection now
coming to the challenge steps this is
the detail this is the
uh uh what we call it this is the
problem statement you have now see how
the these things can help you in your in
your interviews or in your exams when
you have a problem statement let's say
when I have given you a problem
statement to work on I have given you a
scenario in a company where these are
the problems and you you need to
implement or you need to find solution
for it this is what uh this is how we
find solution uh with computer vision
with AI Services right let's say your
Your Leader has told you that uh this is
the problem in the company or in the
software and you need to find a solution
using AI Vision now create a solution
this is what solution Architects do okay
in this challenge uh let let me read
this in this challenge you will showcase
your expertise in uh as your content
moderator integration Master the setup
of content moderator resources testing
its text moderation capabilities via API
and evaluating responses for various
type of content Ensure successful
resources creation key management and
through testing to and thorough testing
to validate the functionality of the
content moderation service okay so it
has given you a brief what all things
you are going to use it or what all
services you are going to implement in
this challenge but we are not telling
you how to implement it we are just
giving you a scenario the scenario is
Koso Corporation a global e-commerce
platform faces challenges in moderating
user generated
content efficiently
manual moderation process leads to slow
response time and allow inappropriate
content to slip through impacting user
experience and band reput brand
reputation to address this as a
developer you have been tasked with
implementing a solution by leveraging
asure content moderator you aim to
automate content moderation ensuring a
safe and positive user environment this
initiative will enhance the uh enhance
the content quality protect the brand
and improve overall user satisfaction
now you you know the problem statement
you know the scenario now you need to
think you need to brainstorm how you can
use different AI services and you can
Implement Implement these services to
resolve this
issue this is how you develop your
architect mind this is how you uh you
know develop your knowledge base okay
this is how you are exposed to problem
and you know how to solve it because
you've already done this in your
preparation right these things will
actually help you in your interviews
when you're sitting for a company and uh
and they are giving you a scenario to
resolve it and it is just on your tips
that what service is there how you are
using it how you are automating it how
you are implementing implementing that
service through API okay and what all
things you are using it so that's my
recommendation go check out these
courses on Wiz laabs and the one who
will be getting access to whsaps
platform please use it wisely please
utilize each and everything available on
Wiz laabs that will actually help in
your career growth and your examination
as well now coming to
the custom Vision thing
okay
okay uh we will uh go to home we will
click on a your AI services and we will
check out custom vision service okay so
what is custom custom vision service uh
we will we we were understanding about
computer vision and com custom Vision so
computer vision is a pre-train model
okay that can uh extract things identify
your images analyze your images and
videos extract relevant information from
it okay custom vision is a service where
you will be training your model okay so
let's create the
service Resource Group we'll select the
resource Group what are we going to do
create options we are going to train it
we are going to train a model so we will
be selecting training option and uh
region is East
US
training uh let's give a unique name AI
associate data
set okay it is available okay training
ai ai associate data set we'll be
selecting the pricing tier that is a
standard is zero we'll click on review
and create and once the validation is
passed we will create
it
okay so at the end of this session I
have two questions for you guys and
whatever I have discussed in the
sessions I have just noted down two
questions from it and I hope you guys
would be able to answer
that okay it is getting deployed let's
wait for few minutes
okay it is taking some time let's wait
for it till then I would like to see the
comments can we do labeling using
computer vision yes you can you can
create labels why not there are services
available uh for image analysis you can
you can do label you
can uh label any object or anything
available in that image that's why I I
am telling you just go on the a portal
create that computer vision service and
uh do your handson just uh go and check
out all the services available all the
options available for image analysis for
video analysis or for pH detection
analyze it uh do hands on try to
understand how things are working how
you can Implement that thing in your uh
in your system in your website in your
software or or wherever you want or in
your uh
Supermarket okay let's uh move
to let's see if uh the service has been
deployed or
not okay the service has been deployed
please let me know if my screen is
visible can anybody confirm me
it should be
visible
yes okay let's go to the
resource let's go to the resource and in
this resource we will be uh just red
redirecting ourselves to the custom
Vision portal so there are three options
the first one is get the API key to
authenticate your application right so
if you want to implement it in your SDK
you need to have the API key okay see it
is written here as well all the custom
Vision call require a key the key can be
found in keys and endpoint the keys and
endpoint section is here okay if you go
to the key and endpoint section you can
uh copy the key from here you can copy
the endpoint from here and you can use
this in your SDK okay now let's go go to
the overview page so right now we are
going to the custom Vision portal
because we are doing it manually through
AAW portal now the custom Vision portal
is getting
loaded on the custom Vision portal first
we will create a project creating a
project means you are creating a uh
directory where you will be giving name
to your project and what all things you
are going to do it you will give a
description project name is okay train
model description let's leave it not
required
um now you already know that that the
set of images you have is what kind of
images right you already know that
whether those images have uh uh multiple
objects or single object okay now I have
already created a folder of some set of
apples red apples so I'm going to train
it for red apples
okay uh here are the options project
types so the pro project type is
classification of object detection so we
will click on object
detection okay because we will be
detecting the object the domain is
General let's leave it now create the
project
okay so we are inside the project that
is train model okay now here is an
option to add images he will be adding
images here we'll click on ADD
images and I already have a folder of
red
apples I have already downloaded it for
you guys so that it won't take much time
in this session to download each image
and uh keep them in a folder and then
upload it so I have selected all the
images I'll click on
open all the images are
here uh there might be some duplicate
image okay so we will click on upload 20
images so there are four Images up Flo
field because they they might be
duplicate okay see what I told you guys
uh earlier in the session is the minimum
images required to train a model is 15
if images are less than 15 your model
will not get trained okay so minimum is
15 maximum is as much as you want okay
so all the images are here now what was
the next step let me show
you um what was the next step
The Next Step was to upload images to
Azure custom Vision we have uploaded it
and in the first step it was just
collect and label images but in the
custom Vision after uploading the image
we label it because that is a Azure
feature but in general we have images we
we add tags to the images then we upload
it and then we train it but in custom
Vision the feature says that you need to
upload the images and then by clicking
on each image you will be adding tags
now I'll be showing you how you can add
taxs so that is also interesting
part
um okay great so you have opened this
image if you wait for some time the AI
will all automatically recognize the
areas okay where you need to just uh
Mark that image right but if you want to
do it uh directly you can just you
know uh directly select the image okay
so let's say see it it has already
analyzed the different areas where you
can add tags so let's say I'll click on
this I'll add it add a
tag Red
Apple I've created a tag now I'll click
on this this is again a red apple this
is again a red apple so these tags are
getting
created how it helps when let's say uh
you give an image to the AI it will
analyze the complete content and it will
find where the red apples are available
in that image see this is also a red
apple this is also a red apple I'm not
clicking anywhere I'm just moving my
cursor and it is showing me uh the
objects this is again a red
apple red apple now let's move to the
another object let's mark this one as
also a red apple let's move to the next
image this one see right now right now
it is again showing me the objects where
we can mark it I'll select this I'll add
a tag I'll select this I'll add a tag
I'll select this one as well I'll add a
tag as a red apple I'll move to the next
picture see in the beginning I'll show
you in the beginning no images has been
classified but see after a few seconds
it has analyzed that these images are
there there can be tags added I'll click
on this red apple so right now what we
are doing we have uploaded the image now
we are adding labels or we are adding
tags to the images right the tags which
we want to get analyzed by the AI what
do you think if I give a tag to this
object as green apple and this object
also as green apple so to all the red
apples I'm giving tag as green apple
what will happen at the end if you give
after training your model if you give an
image to analyze it will identify your
red apple as aen Apple because you have
given that tag so giving right tag to an
object is very
important if there is a cycle do not
give a tag for bike because at the end
when you give an image to your system it
will identify your cycle as a bike so
that is not correct in general that is
not correct maybe you want it to uh
analyze as a bike that might be correct
for you but in general it is not correct
so giving right tag is very important
for your system if you you are training
your own custom models
okay this is a group of Red Apple so we
can give this as a tag let's give tag as
red
apple let's move to the next
picture Okay this has analyzed red
apple red
apple move to
next so minimum of 15 images are
required to rain a model so we have 16
images in this uh uh project so we will
be marking each and every
image red
apple red
apple red apple red apple
now what can be the another tag here
hands or people are holding Red Apple
because there are hands in this image so
this AI has analyzed now it is asking
you to give a tag but I'm not going to
give any tag because we are only going
to analyze red apples and not hands okay
so if you want to analyze whether in an
image if there are people holding red
apples then you can you can use this
kind of tag you can use this kind of
images where people are actually holding
red apples okay and you can give tag as
hands are holding red apples or people
are holding red apples let's move to the
next
image okay this one is also ER
Apple so right now we are in the process
of giving tags to each and every
image
okay Red
Apple too many
images so many red apples I I hope you
you guys are don't you are you guys are
not craving for red apples right now
because I am feeling to have a red apple
because I have seen too many red apples
right
now okay and these are beautiful red
apples okay
[Music]
okay let's cross this okay let's close
this only one image is uh available here
or one only one image is left which is
untagged there is an option to see the
tagged images see for red apples we have
15 images these all images are being
tagged they are already tagged by us
okay now uh if you want to see if there
are an image which is untagged you you
can see that we will click on this we
will again
give a label to this image or tag to
this
image okay we have given tag now what is
the next step we have uh we had the data
set we have uploaded the data set we
have given tags to the images okay now
the third step is training the model you
will click on train now
see for quick
training it requires minimum of 1 hour
okay for Advanced Training let's say you
have a bigger your data set so it
require uh it's up to the budget
training budget
okay it require uh a large number large
amount of time and it depends on your
budget as well so right now we are going
to use Quick training we will train
it now after training you will be able
to see the probability the percentage of
accuracy uh because uh see the accuracy
cannot be as good as you have seen uh in
the pre-trend model that you could have
seen that for the people there was 99%
accuracy but you see we have only given
15 images to this custom models so 15
images is not enough to train a model or
to get the accuracy there need to be
thousands of images if you really want
to have
accuracy uh after analyzing an image
right so that's why it is important uh
to to prepare a good good amount of or
large number of data set so that you you
can train your model for an accuracy for
a better accuracy and you can get the
output uh in a better manner okay but
for 15 images let's see how much
accuracy we are getting and uh what is
the probability that uh the app Red
Apple is available in an image
okay it is going to take some time it is
training I think it will take around
five five minutes I guess till then I
would like to see the chat
okay enjoying thank you thank you
Pima uh krishi thank you interesting
thank
you if you guys have any kind of
questions you can drop in the chat I'm
available to take questions because the
model is getting trained so it is going
to take some
time at least 5 minutes
so drop your questions in the chat I am
available you can tell me how uh what
all things you understood or uh
um how you actually enjoyed this session
or not you you can directly tell me in
the
chats uh explain the difference between
using pre-built models in Azure Vision
versus training custom models okay so
there are two things one is pre built
model one is custom models so custom
model are for youu guys let's say uh I
already given an example of a super
store okay in a super store you want to
identify whether a
person whether a person of white shirt
has entered your super store or not okay
so that's a generalized thing okay that
can be available in a pre-trained model
so white shirt can be identified as by
the pre pre-train model right so in this
case you can use pre-train model because
that is satisfying your need okay that
is matching with your need because
because that white Shir can be
identified by a pre-train model but
let's say you have recently launched
your brand and your brand name is
XYZ okay now what is the probability
that your brand can be identified that
pre-train model I don't think there is
any ability because you have recently
launched a brand and and there is no
interaction of your brand with the AI
how would you able to identify your
brand using pre-train model so in this
case you need to have your own custom
model you train your own model in such a
way that it identifies your brand okay
you give all the images or all you give
logos to the to your model you give
images to your model you give images of
objects objects you give images of
products where your Lo logo is there
right you you prepare a large data set
which can identify your logo okay you
prepare a large data set you give that
data set to the custom vision and then
in custom
Vision uh you can give tags to your
logos right just now uh like we have
given tags to red apples there are many
apples there can be green apples red
apples but we are only giving tags to
red apples so to identify your brand you
just identify that area where your logo
is mentioned and you can give tag to
your logo or give a name to your logo
okay now when you use your custom train
model if there is any object where your
logo is used or you want to see whether
this is this is this uh product is from
your company or your brand or not your
custom model would be able to identify
it I hope uh now it is uh clear you got
better understanding of where you can
use pre-train model and where you can
use your custom
models uh what industry will it be most
beneficial for any
industry Healthcare
uh laws enforcement Health Care uh uh
traffic or Product Industry or your
super store or in security and
surveillance any industry it's up to you
what exactly or how exactly you want to
create a solution using the service
right let's say even if you are in your
room okay and uh whole day you are just
feeling sleepy and you are just lying on
the bed whole day and you are not doing
any work so you have trained your model
in such a way that that if your model
finds you lying on the bed it will just
uh call your parents and it will tell
that uh your kid is lying on the bed and
not studying so
anywhere it's it depends on your need
how you want to implement it okay let me
see if uh the model has been trained or
not okay the model has been trained let
me show you guys please confirm uh when
my screen is
visible okay I hope my screen is visible
to you guys
see the model has been trained okay the
tag is uh Red
Apple and these are the prec Precision
recall so this number will tell you if a
tag is predicted by your model uh How
likely is that to be right okay so the
Precision is 33% means uh 15 images are
not enough to you know train a model to
increase this percentage you need to
have large number of or large set of
data sets recall is this number will
tell you out of the tags which should be
Ed correctly uh what percentage did your
model correctly find it okay okay map
meaning average Precision this number
will tell you the overall object detect
performance across the tags okay this
will give you an average that uh uh the
accuracy maybe the accuracy of uh of
your object object
detection now we want to so here is an
option to
publish after publishing you can use its
key and end point and you can use it in
your s DK but right now we are first
going to test it so we'll click on Quick
Test you can give a image URL or you can
browse local file so I have downloaded
this just one
minute okay I have downloaded this one
so we'll use this one whether it is able
to identify or
not now uh I told you that uh we will be
able to see the probability of uh the
analyzed image right so when you check
check on the click on the first
probability Red Apple the probability is
99.6% means you can take decision on
this right so the decision- making
ability is better on this uh on this red
apple okay so this red apple is this one
this one the
99.6 this one you can see yes exactly
this is a red apple let's check the
another
one red apple the probability is
96.7 but this is not a correct
probability because in the in the Border
it shows as green apple again coming to
the point important Point 15 images are
not enough to train a model right it
will not give you the exact accuracy so
in this case what will happen is uh you
can take decision only on few um few
analysis or or let's say the first one
the probability of which the highest
probability object the highest
probability object will be this one the
first one so maybe you can take take
decision on this uh analysis but not the
other one let's see the other one as
well see red apple 92.8% the percentage
is good probability is good but see
where is the Red Apple there is no Red
Apple so taking a decision will only uh
be you would be able to take decision on
the highest probability object and not
the other because you have only given 15
images to your model you give thousands
of images it will give you accurate uh
analysis it will analyze the image
accurately it will identify whether uh
it is a r Apple it is a green apple so
let's say we have only used a data set
for Red Apple but we will give uh we
will also use a data set for green apple
so in a single image it will be able to
identify or it will able to mark that
area where the red apple is available
and where the green apple is available
so this is how you will be training your
data set and after training you would be
able to use its key and endpoint and uh
you can just you know use it in your SDK
or in your super store uh super store
has become a favorite um word in this
session it just came out of anywhere in
my mind and I took this word and I've
given example many example on this thing
so I hope you guys found it interest
interesting that's all from my side uh
let me move to the presentation I have
few things for you
guys test your knowledge how can we go
without testing our
knowledge okay we have done the demo now
the time is for knowledge
check I I uh focused on a very important
thing when we were doing image analysis
now it's time for you to answer that the
question is you want to use the Azure AI
Vision analyze image function to
generate an appropriate caption for an
image which visual feature should you
specify tags dense captions
objects okay the another question is
what is the purpose of the Azure AI
vision service the first point is to
provide functionality for audio
transcription or to extract information
from images or to detect the presence
and location of a specific sounds within
an audio file these are the two
questions I think they are very simple
to answer you guys can answer it let me
know in the comments uh that's all from
my side thank you so much this is Aditya
Pand and I hope you guys guys found it
very useful and uh please check out Wiz
laabs platform for your preparation
because it has the most useful content
for your preparation and even for your
interview preparation that's all from my
side thank you so much and have a great
day thank you so much ad for sharing
your expertise with us today your
insights have been incredibly valuable
and we're grateful for the time and
effort you put into this session this
was a really great session and now
moving on to the Q&A session we' like to
open the floor for questions if you have
any questions fora please drop them in
the chat and we will address as many as
possible don't hesitate this is your
chance to get anwers directly from the
expert uh also guys uh if uh let's
connect on LinkedIn and uh if you guys
have any kind of questions you can send
me on LinkedIn we we let's get connected
and I would also be starting uh to
sharing some important things or details
on important topics on the LinkedIn so
we can also interact there as well so
let me share my LinkedIn ID to the
moderator please share this in the
comments thank you sir even I had a
question
uh What uh how can developers optimize a
AI Services a vision for image real time
IM
processing so I I already mentioned that
you can use that in your SDK
uh for software developers uh you can
use that service in your SDK you can use
keys and endpoints to implement that so
again it's depend on
your use case on your demand or on your
like how you want to use it it depends
on what kind of solution you want to
create out of it right I just cannot
randomly tell you A solution that this
is how you can use it but let's say if
you have a software or you are a
software developer so the areas where
you you want to use it you need to
identify that because using this service
is very easy the area the implementation
is the important thing right so if you
have found the area where you want to
use it you can just implement it
directly in your SDK there there is a
lot of options available and even if you
don't know how to implement it you can
just follow the Microsoft learn
documentations and uh we have some set
of labs also available on bz laabs so
that will also help
so for the general MK like everyone
who's attending right now is it
advisable like most of them would be
from first year second year or even
third year and now they will be making
making the projects for the internships
and right for the CV right so is it
advisable for them to use these kind of
services provided by Azure or should
they use the basic that how we train the
models using Python and ml so how would
you uh get to this so the first thing is
uh I think you do not need any advice on
this because cloud and AI has become a
norm right so this is the normal these
days if you're are not using cloud and
AI I think you are somewhere you are
lagging behind Okay so in your project
let's say you are creating a project you
can definitely use a pre-trained model
but let's say you are presenting
something and you want to show them your
skills so you can show them how you
trained your model and how you are able
to identify what you want to check what
you want to analyze right pre-train
model using pre-rain model is very easy
but but creating your own data sets uh
like what exactly you want to analyze
you create your own data set you do some
work you give tags to your data set you
analyze different objects in your image
uh you give different tags uh in that
image to different objects and then you
train your model and then you use that
custom model in your project that will
have better impact on the let's say
recruiter or on um your uh uh The
Faculty who is checking your project
they will know that you know uh how to
train a model and how to use your custom
Vision in your project right so that's
how you can implement it okay we have
one question uh how does aoria vision
handle data augmentation uh can it
automatically generate synthetic data to
improve model accuracy when we have a
limited data set such as with only 15
images of red apples uh can it
automatically generate synthetic data to
improve
no uh for this smaller data set it it
won't be uh doing uh it won't be
happening uh like this but if you have a
bigger data set let's say you have maybe
hundreds of images 1500 2,000 images or
thousands of images and after that if
you are giving images different kind of
images to your data set it will start
training right so uh in the beginning
you need to train your model for the
accuracy right the accuracy you want
after that it will automatically be uh
get trained by you know using deep
learning and uh machine learning right
so in the beginning it is important to
train your model because uh that is your
model after that it will be again uh you
know automatically getting trained uh by
the images you you are giving as input
to the AI
how does it interesting itself from the
other clouds cloud
based U this is a very generic questions
uh Azure AI Vision distinguish itself
from other cloud-based computer vision
platform see Azure AI vision is a
pre-train model and it is being trained
on a very large data set right it is a
very generalized model uh I
think uh if you remove the personal
identification or personal analysis
let's say I talked about uh the brand
analysis the brand of yours if you
remove that kind of thing I don't think
it won't be able to analyze any other
thing it will be able to analyze each
and everything because that is trained
on a very bigger data set right so I
don't know about other platform how it
is different but I can definitely say
that Azure AI vision is something which
is which is uh very Advanced uh
pre-train model very Advanced service
given by Microsoft Asar
okay how can we optimize resource uses
to minimize
expense so the cost analysis we can do
the cost analysis there is a calculator
by Microsoft Azure that is azure cost uh
Azure pricing calculator you can go
there you can just enter your service
and it will give you the cost right as
per the uh timing and the amount of data
set but the uh important thing how you
can optimize your resource uses or
optimize minimize your expenses is you
need to
monitor monitoring is very important see
whether you are using AI or Cloud
whether things are already automated but
the end at the end of the day you need
to monitor whether things are moving
fine or not you need to monitor whether
there there is no errors because this is
technology right and Technology machines
can throw error right we humans machines
so what we are doing is we are trying to
train a machine to be a human right if
human can make errors machine can also
make errors right so you need to monitor
monitoring is the best thing to uh
minimize your cost and uh uh optimize
your resource
uses
right
um how does aure vision handle the
classification object in low quality or
distorted
images see we have talked about the
traditional model and we have talked
about the Azure AI Vision what was the
uh limitation in traditional model it
will not perform good in low light
conditions and you have to hardcode all
the rules for that but this is the
benefit or this is the capability of Uh
custom Vision which is available on
available on Microsoft Azure that it can
give you uh Solutions or it can give you
the output even in the poorest condition
even in the lowest condition let's say
for an image it can be low light
condition right for an image it can be
distorted image but it will identify it
will try to identify it will give you a
better probability that what this object
can be right so this is the benefit of
using a pre-train model and the computer
vision on a ji
Vision right uh
so actually that's the capability of
computer vision right right and uh this
is how it got trained uh this is how uh
it has been trained for the poorest or
for the you know lowest condition
available for thei that's why it is the
it is one of the biggest uh model which
can uh identify your images which can
extract information from your images you
can just imagine uh uh the
OCR um supports different languages not
only English but Hindi
Spanish or uh any other language marati
or whatever language is there are
Japanese so it can extract
information from any kind of document
whether it is written in Hindi English
or Japanese right so that's why we say
that uh this is one of the best feature
of Microsoft Azure the AI uh computer
vision and custom Vision where you can
which you can use in your systems in
your use cases and you can create I mean
number of Solutions out of it right I
hope things are clear to you guys and I
hope I I was able to uh clear concept
around the computer vision solution
using Azure AI Vision if you guys have
any kind of questions you can just
connect with me on LinkedIn and you can
drop your questions there I would be
happy to connect with you guys and I
would be happy to answer your questions
thank you so much uh for everybody who
has been uh stick till the end and uh
and uh understood each and everything
thank you so much uh have a great day
thank you so much sir it was a lovely
session thank you so muches thank you so
much developer team thank you so
much now we arrive at the moment you've
all been waiting for the announcement of
the winners of the best blog or get up
page for the previous session we've seen
some fantastic submissions and it's been
tough to select the best but here are
the
winners the first unati Agarwal
moving on we have KS AE and last but not
the least paridi Agarwal congratulations
to all the winners you'll receive
exclusive branded Microsoft goodies and
we're thrilled to see your dedication
and hard work paying
off a quick reminder to stand a chance
of winning amazing prizes like branded
Microsoft goodies and wilab
subscriptions make sure that you write a
blog or maintain a GI up repository for
each session share your learnings on
LinkedIn orx mentioning the Azure
developer community vlabs and Yar engage
in live sessions and follow our social
media channels the deadlines for the
submission for this session will be
Thursday 25th October 2024 till 6 p.m.
keep an eye on your email and WhatsApp
Community for the submission
form stay connected and up toate by
joining our social media channels and
WhatsApp Community just scan the QR code
on your screen to stay informed about
all our upcoming events and
announcements
remember the top three participants with
the best blog or get up page will
receive branded Microsoft goodies
additionally at the end of the boot camp
the top 15 blogs or giup repositories
will re receive one month subscription
from this
lab a huge thank you to the incredible
team behind the scenes who made this
event possible your hard work is deeply
appreciated we look forward to seeing
you all again on 20th of October for our
next session on develop Solutions with
Azure air document intelligence don't
miss it it promises to be another
fantastic learning opportunity thank you
again for joining us today we hope you
found the session valuable and inspiring
let's keep learning and exploring the
endless possibilities of AI together
have a great day and we'll see you again
on 20th at 12:00 p.m. thank you
