hey guys and welcome to new video in
this video here we're going to talk
about like how to get started with
computer vision how do you actually get
into computer Vis Vision how did did I
get into computer vision and how did I
act like start this journey here with
the YouTube uh first of all i' I started
out with computer vision I went more
into like deep learning now we're
actually combining deep learning and
computer vision we're going to talk
about that and then I'm going to give
you some some tips and some guidelines
we're going to set up a road map of like
how to actually like get into computer
vision so basically like if you're
interested in computer vision the first
step is to learn like the fundamentals
of computer science and also like
programming I suggest you start off with
python if you haven't programmed before
like definitely start out with python
you can learn the basics like the if
statements for loops and all those
around things and then after you are
familiar with like the programming
concept you can actually like go in try
to do some some different kind of things
in C++ as well because then you will get
knowledge on a lower level you also need
some understanding inside of like some
math understanding to act like do
computer vision task of course you can
call some different kind of functions
from Frameworks but it is always good to
know like how does it act like work
under the hood and you'll also be way
better at solving problems and also like
finding solutions to problems if you
have like fundamental like knowledge in
math especially for linear algebra and
also calculus but linear algebra is
actually really essential uh when we're
doing all these different kind of
calculations for computer vision and
then when you have a strong F foundation
in these subjects you can start like
learning the basics stuff about computer
vision uh image processing video
processing which is basically just like
a a sequence of images then when you
have done that like the basic image
processing I have tutorials about all of
it here on the channel my tutorials is
acts like in C++ so I'll definitely
recommend uh first start off with the
basic concepts in Python if you're
familiar with programming and python you
can just directly go into uh my tutorial
with C++ I go over like all the basic
things so first of all we start with
image processing how can you faal an
image how can you blur an image uh how
to actually like remove noise and images
we're talking about those different kind
things on a really low fundamental level
so you'll get like the basic
understanding the tutorials I have here
on the channel about computer vision is
basically going from like the beginner
level to more intermediate level and
then at the end here we act like at a
pretty high level where we're combining
all the different kind of things and we
also like put deep learning optic
detection and all those different kind
things on top of our um computer vision
Foundation with the B basic things and
also the more intermediate things with
like for example like background
subtraction feature extraction how can
we actually like extract features and
Frames match them to different kind of
frames and then on a more advanced level
how can we do like 3D image processing
uh depth estimation how can we calculate
depth with our images and all the
different kind of things with stereo
Vision so this is basically like the
Rope map so start by learning the
fundamentals of computer science
programming including like data
structures and algorithms but and the
most important things within math it Act
is actually like algebra linear algebra
and calculus you'll be able to use it
for a lot of different kind of like
computer vision applications uh when
we're going to do some multiplication
and all those different kind things when
we're going to actually like do
operations on images we're basically
just using linear algebra then after
that learn the basics of like image and
video processing uh including like these
different kind of techniques for filling
transforming and acts like just
analyzing visual data we're doing a lot
of different kind of like
Transformations uh filtering methods and
all those different kind of things I
both have like practical ways of how to
act like do it but I also go over the
theory of how these algorithm filters
and Transformations act like Works um on
the math level as well when you know all
those basic things you can actually like
just take it into another step so those
are the more like basic steps for
actually like getting into computer
vision now we can take it to an
intermediate level where we actually go
inside like feature extraction um
processing identifying and extracting
information from our images so basically
we're just giving some images and then
we actually like want to do something
with it we want to be able to use it in
real life because again like we're just
learning computer vision to actually
like get our computers to see something
in the real world so then we can take it
to the intermediate steps which is
actually like feature extraction uh we
want to like do for example like it's
detection color histograms how can I
like get information from color
histograms how can we manipulate our
image
uh so we can actually like see more
information in our images without doing
anything else than some post processing
uh playing around with some histograms
and so on and then again we can just add
like pattern recognition optic detection
and all those different kind things
which is basically like on a bit more
high level so when we have the basics
basic operations of computer vision we
have the basics then we go to the media
step extract features and all those
different kind things and then the next
level is basically just combining the
intermediate steps and basic steps we go
up on an even higher level we combine
all those different things we do feature
extracting to try to like find 3D
information in our images we do stereo
revision um Optical flow optic detection
and then when we actually get to that
stage we can try to like get into deep
learning how can we combine deep
learning with computer vision because
acts like you can just take your images
Thro and through some um deep learning
models you can then do optic detection
optic segmentation and all those
different kind of things but the more
advanced computer vision stuff is
actually like 3D reconstruction
understanding understanding just seeing
you're in and understanding what you
actually see in the images and then also
visual tracking so again you can both
like do detection in your images so
let's say we want to do like a person
detector then we can actually like just
detect that person walking around in the
image frame but sometimes you might lose
track and we actually like need to
actually like track the exact objects
moving in the frame then we can also add
another step then we're adding tracking
on top of our detections and now we
actually get to a really advanced level
and when we're at that level within
computer vision and deep learning we can
actually like start to make some really
useful things for the real world and
then when you're at that point you're
really really good at computer vision
you can do a lot of different kind of
things you can actually like work with
different like projects Concepts you can
do like pretty much everything within
computer vision of course new things
come out all the time you need to keep
keep updated with that again as you
continue to learn and improve your
skills within computer vision also like
participate in different kind of like
online communities also here in the
channel be active on the channel in
different communities learn from other
people like talk to other people also if
you teach other people the concepts and
the ideas that you learn by yourself
then you will act like understand them
way better this was also act like one of
the main reasons I started this YouTube
channel was to actually like teach you
guys something about like computer
vision deep learning on all those
different kind things and just as the
time went by I just get got way better
at computer vision all these different
kind things by just like talking about
them teaching them to you guys I just
gained a lot of more knowledge um I was
actually like getting more into like
implementing these things actually like
going from like fairy to act like
implementations how can we use this in
the real world and then I just kept on
improving like my my computer vision
skills and and my understanding of
computer vision and how it works it just
got way better by act like teaching
talking with other guys about it um
trying it out again if you want to be
good at something you just need to put
in the hours so my advice is basically
just like particip at like talk to other
guys participate in different kind of
like communities in forums stay up to
dat like uh get into like Twitter like
LinkedIn and all those different kind of
things just stay up to date with the new
things in computer vision once you have
like the basic understanding on the
fundamental levels or you're at the
really high level uh you try to like do
something useful with computer vision
you can also look at different kind of
like conferences as all and all those
different kind things but the most
important thing is to actually like just
stay up to date keep learning and the
way you learn is act like by
implementing things so again if you just
like look at it at a fundamental and
like thetical uh view you won't really
be able to apply it Implement those
different kind things in real world
computer vision applications because you
can of course call some functions from
omv and all those different kind of
things on images but once you are given
a project in the real world you have a
camera in a production setup for example
then it will just be way way harder if
you haven't done it before so my advice
is basically just Implement do some
practical stuff the more practical thing
to do the better you will be and also if
you talk with other guys like discuss
the different kind of things uh try to
create some project with uh with other
people as well discuss in different kind
of like communities or firms your
understanding of computer vision will
just be way way better so keep learning
and keep improving your skills I have
all these videos here covered like from
the basic intermediate steps to a more
like high level step where we're going
into like freeding information stereo
Vision op diation deep learning and all
those different around things because
like computer vision is a rapidly
involving field so it's important to
stay engage continue to learn never stop
keep on learning keep on implementing
these things here in practical ways you
will get way way better and it will pay
off in the end thank you guys for
watching this video here and again
remember to hit the Subscribe button and
Bell notification on the video also like
this video here if you like the content
and you want more in the future again as
I've mentioned throughout this video I
have videos about everything with
computer vision from the basic levels of
image processing to more like Advanced
things where we do feature extracting
match the features do reconstruction
like freed reconstruction stereo Vision
like Point clouds applying deep learning
to computer vision and all those
different kind things if you're
interested in it I'll link to one of the
tutorials up here or else on see next
for you guys bye for now
