so you want to learn artificial
intelligence then this video is for you
I'm going to provide you with a complete
roadmap that I would follow if I had to
start over today on my artificial
intelligence journey and now for context
I started studying artificial
intelligence back in 2013 10 years ago
and over the past years I've been
working as a freelance data scientist
helping my clients with various
end-to-end data science and artificial
intelligence Solutions and applications
I also share all of this knowledge and
my journey on this YouTube channel which
as of today has over 25 000 subscribers
and at the end of this video I will also
provide you with a resource completely
for free where you can follow all of
these steps to complete roadmap even
with training videos and instructions so
make sure to stick around for that and
now before we dive into the seven steps
that I would take today to go from
beginner all the way to monetizing my
data and AI skills it's important to
provide some context on what is
currently going on with the AI hype
because I see a lot of new people
entering the field and for a good reason
because the AI Market size is expected
to grow up to 20 volt by the year 2030
bringing it all the way to nearly 2
trillion US dollars so it's really one
of the best opportunities I would say
right now to get into because we're
still early we're still at the beginning
of this AI Revolution and also with the
release of these pre-trained models from
open AI it's now also easier than ever
to enter the field but that said that is
also where a lot of the misunderstanding
and just wrong expectations arise from
because I see a lot of people online as
well as on YouTube explaining like how
you can quickly start for example your
own AI automation agency and while there
are great tools already online out there
like both press and stack Ai and
flowwise which I also made a video on
where you can quickly spin up prototypes
and and simple Bots and even can get a
little bit more advanced don't get me
wrong you can definitely build some
great Solutions with that but if you
really want to learn artificial
intelligence and build applications that
companies can count on and build upon
then you really have to understand the
coding part the technical part really of
it so that's really where our starting
point should be for you and for your
learning path figuring out hey do I want
to just learn how to use these no code
Loco tools already available or do I
really want to learn artificial
intelligence and with that said there is
also just a general misunderstanding I
believe of what really AI is because AIS
is such a large umbrella term and it's
also nothing new it's been around since
the 1950s but right now with the chat
GPT hype and the open AI models people
think AI is that really if we look at
what artificial intelligence really is
it's like I've said a real big umbrella
term with various subfields so for
example within artificial intelligence
which is here explained as programs with
the ability to learn and reason like
humans machine learning then we have
deep learning which is another subset
focusing on neural networks and then we
have the field of data science but in my
work as a data scientist I use
artificial intelligence I use machine
learning and I also use deep learning
it's a lot more than what people think
the first real question that you gotta
ask yourself is do you want to be a
coder and now there's no right or wrong
answer here there are plenty of
opportunities right now and also in the
future for both Pathways for both local
NOCO tools and building custom
applications but you just gotta be aware
of the pros and cons to both of the
sides and not to be totally clear this
roadmap is for people that really want
to learn AI with the depth of
understanding really learn the technical
side of things and now if you've decided
that that is not for you that's of
course totally fine like I said there's
no right or wrong but then if you want
to still want to do things with AI then
I recommend starting out by checking out
both press like I've set or stack AI
which are excellent resources or you
could check out my video on flowwise
here on YouTube where I show you how you
can get started with a local NOCO 2 as
well completely for free but if you do
decide that you want to join the Dark
Side and become a coder then let's
proceed with the next steps my Approach
is quite different from anything else
you will find online and now why is that
and what I typically see online is you
have two ends of the the Spectrum
basically where on the one hand you have
the people talking about these low code
and no code tools not really getting
into the specific the theoretical part
and then on the other hand you have the
more classical approaches towards
artificial intelligence and machine
learning where people really get into
the mathematics and the statistics
giving you road maps where you really
have to get theoretical first I'm a firm
believer of learning by doing reverse
engineering things that people have
already done putting in practice and
then trying to fill in the gaps now the
technical roadmap that I'm going to
provide to you will really focus on the
fundamentals that you need in order to
get started in either artificial
intelligence data science or anything in
between like I've said I've worked in
all of these fields over the past 10
years and I've really identified the
core techniques workflows and tools that
you need in order to get started
regardless of what you want to do so
this will work for you if you just want
to build applications with large
language models and Lang chain for
example but it will also work if you
aspire to become a data scientist or a
machine learning engineer now the actual
first step that I would focus on on my
AI Journey would be to set up my work
environment now what does this mean so
python is the go-to language that we
have to learn if you want to get started
in AI or in data science but the thing
is
Titan if you start to follow these
tutorials online videos training videos
courses even you can quite quickly
understand Python and how it works
because it's one of the easiest
languages to get started with but I
found in my personal Journey that
there's this initial bump where you see
things online and you see people run
some code but then you are missing some
information on okay but how do I now
actually do this on my laptop on my
computer
and I would really focus on this first
setting up an environment on your laptop
on your computer where you have an
application a program and a python
installation that you are confident with
and now I have a specific approach that
I take over here within fias code and a
lot of people seem to like that so make
sure to check that out in the resources
but this really is step one they're
getting accustomed with that and that
brings us then to step two which is
actually getting started with python
it's like I said the most important
language this is going to be your tool
that you're going to build these
applications in now if you're new to
programming at all I would first focus
on the fundamentals of programming which
I will have resources to but then
quickly transition into learning the
basics of python and then specifically
some libraries that are very useful for
AI and data science in particular so
these would be for example the numpy AI
Library the pandas library and the matte
plus lib library now these are all
libraries that you can use to do data
manipulation data cleaning creating
visualizations this is really your
starting point for starting to work with
data because in the end all AI
applications all AI tools are created
from data with data so being able to
work with data and turn raw and
unstructured data into information into
valuable insights that you can actually
do something with is is really at the
core of of artificial intelligence and
now step three would be to learn the
very basics of git and GitHub now why is
that some would argue that that would be
a little bit more advanced and it's not
required in the beginning but what I've
found especially with artificial
intelligence and also the video
tutorials that I make is that a lot of
examples online people will make that
code available via GitHub but you have
to understand kind of at the very base
sick how these tools work because that
allows you to easily copy and clone is
what they call it tutorials that brings
us to step 4 which is working on
projects and building a portfolio and
for this it's convenient if you already
know how to use git so you can download
some projects download some code from
from other people and then try to
reverse engineer it to me that really is
the best way to to Learn Python to get
good to actually understand holistically
what a project looks like how people are
structuring their code and trying to run
it and then you don't understand what's
going on but then trying to reverse
engineer so it's really like beginning
with the end in mind and then trying to
change things and see how that affects
the different outcomes and this also
provides you with an opportunity to
explore what it is specifically that you
like about artificial intelligence all
the areas we've discussed computer
vision natural language processing
machine learning he here you really find
out okay these are all the kinds of
things that I can do and this is really
what I like to do and then as you're
working on these projects selecting them
picking them you there will be a lot of
gaps and and things you don't understand
and that would be a good point if you're
interested in that to find specific
pieces of information or courses to help
you with just that and now when it comes
to projects probably the best place to
start if you want to learn more about
data science and machine learning is
kaggle so kaggle is an excellent
resource that you can go through and
they host machine learning competitions
here so you can see all kinds of
requests and you can even win prizes so
this is one from Google and the cool
thing here is if you click on the actual
competition you can also actually have a
look at submissions that people have
made so here you can see an entire
notebook from someone
that is trying to solve this problem for
Google all with documentation and and
even the code so this is such an
excellent learning resources source that
you can go through like I said there are
plenty plenty of resources available on
here but if that's not for you machine
learning data science if you want to
just explore large language models in
open AI for example right now then I
recommend to check out my GitHub
repository on Lang chain experiments so
I also have videos on my YouTube channel
for that but here on the repository
that's why it's good that you at least
understand the basics of git and GitHub
so you can take this code know how to
work with it so here are some cool
examples of how you connect can create a
YouTube bot that can summarize a video
or even a slack bolt or a Ponders agent
that can ask questions and answer
questions about large data tables and
now if you're really serious about
learning artificial intelligence and
data science and another great resource
that you can check out is Project Pro
which I've recently discovered so
project Pro is a curated library of
verified and solved end-to-end project
Solutions in data science machine
learning and big data so overall this is
just an excellent resource with with so
much information and all the projects on
here that you can pick from all from the
various fields are all created by top
industry experts from leading tech
companies so what I really like about
this is first of all you have about 3
000 free recipes that like anyone can
check out but if you get to the
subscription and that is why it really
gets interesting you have access to 250
plus end-to-end projects so you can
really like go in here and see okay what
is it that you're working on so maybe
it's data science and you want to
specialize in machine learning and you
go in here you literally have all kinds
of projects and this is not only a great
resource for you to learn from because
you will have complete video
walkthroughs 24 7 support and you can
ask questions and and you can even
download all of the code so literally
the entire project will be made
available to you so it's a excellent
Learning Resource but also for me
personally working as a freelance data
scientist this can also like really help
me in my professional work that the
projects that I take on so for you that
could either be in your job or in future
jobs freelancing whatever you really
have a library that you can pick from
that can really give you that extra kind
of confidence you need for example to
take on a project now like I've said
really you see video instructions you
can go through everything and then also
download the code so this really is a
great resource that you can check out
and if you want to learn more about this
I will leave a link down in the
description and project Pro also has a
YouTube channel which you can subscribe
to if you want to stay in the loop learn
more on that and that brings us to step
five which is picking your
specialization and sharing your
knowledge so right now you understand
the fundamentals of python you have a
work environment and some some efficient
workflows that you can follow you also
have some project experience so now you
get a little bit more clarity of what it
is that you want to do within the world
of AI or data science or machine
learning so this would be the point
where you pick a focus area you
specialize you try to learn more and
also what I really would recommend and
what I would do is to start sharing your
knowledge so you could do this through a
personal blog you could do this through
writing articles on medium or towards
data science or you could even
potentially like I'm doing share your
your knowledge on YouTube and by doing
so you're not only contributing to the
collective knowledge on AI and data
science but it's also an essential
method for you to strengthen your own
learning because in doing so in
explaining Concepts that you're working
on that you're learning to to someone
else you really start to identify the
gaps within your understanding and this
again allows you to fill in those gaps
accordingly and really focus on some
specialized learning versus just going
through course after course after course
and then step six would be continue to
learn and upskill because now that you
have Clarity on your specialization and
kind of the direction that you want to
go and you also start to identify these
gaps within your own understanding
it might be time for you to for example
focus on math focus on statistics if you
want to become a better machine learning
engineer or a data scientist but if
you've decided to go with the large
language model and generative AI route
you might identify that you need some
software engineering skills actually
really start to understand how you can
work with with apis and create
applications and that's like I think the
main main message that I wanna want to
provide you with with regards to this
roadmap and and my Approach is that it's
everyone's journey is is unique and
depending on what you want to do with AI
there's a specialized learning path for
you specifically so my goal is to really
provide you with the tools and
techniques to quickly get going
get your hands dirty identify problems
work on projects and then fill in those
gaps and then finally step 7 would be to
monetize your skills now this could
either be through a job this could be
through freelancing or this could be
through building a product but where the
real Learning Happens is is when there
really is some pressure onto it so it's
all fun and games when you're trying to
explore this within your free time
following some courses following some
tutorials but when it's your boss or
when it's a client that's that's
breathing down your neck for the
deadline that is where you really push
yourself that is where you really get
creative get resourceful and try to
absorb and learn as much information as
possible to just get the job done and
that's it those are the seven steps that
I would take today if I had to start
over completely from scratch on my AI
Journey and now another bonus tip that I
can provide you which will make a great
difference is surround yourself with
like-minded individuals who are on the
same track the same path as you who
share the same interest where you can
bounce ideas off where you can share the
latest news and tips with and in order
to facilitate that for you as well I
have an exciting announcement because
today I will officially be releasing my
free group called Data alchemy that I
would like you all to invite you this
will be a group where I not only share
the complete and entire roadmap that I
just shared with you with all the links
resources tools it will also be a hub
your go-to place to navigate the world
of data science and artificial
intelligence and everything that's going
on and happening right now within this
rapidly changing field so if you're
serious about learning artificial
intelligence and data science and you
also also want access to not only this
entire roadmap but additional courses
and resources then make sure to check
out the first link in the pinned comment
below this video and then I look forward
to seeing you in the group
foreign
