last week versell unveiled NEX js15 and
it's got some awesome new features you
don't need like partial pre-rendering
however this is just the tip of the
iceberg for gamechanging new JavaScript
framework updates in the last few months
the good news is that web developers
have all sorts of shiny new tools to
play with but the bad news is that any
web app you built before watching this
video contains totally obsolete Legacy
code and will need to be Rewritten
immediately in today's video we'll look
at not one not two but a ridiculous 15
new features in frontend JavaScript
Frameworks that you probably don't know
yet it is May 28th 2024 and you watching
the code report but first we need to
talk about react 19 and its new compiler
feature I made a full video about this a
few weeks ago but basically it takes a
hint from Frameworks like spelt and
solid to compile code ahead of time
instead of using the virtual Dom which
allows the framework to eliminate hooks
like use memo and use callback because
now it already knows what needs to be
rendered and you don't need to jump
through these hoops to do it in your
code that's a huge win for react and
brings us to the updates in nextjs 15
next1 15 already has support for the
react 19 compiler but I think the most
interesting new feature is something
called partial pre-rendering normally
when you render a web page in next it's
either static when the data doesn't
change very often or it's Dynamic when
the data is uncashed and it's constantly
changing but sometimes you might have a
page that requires both like maybe you
have a blog post that could be
statically rendered but then it has a
bunch of comments below it that should
be dynamically rendered well now you can
put static content and dynamic content
on the same page but handle everything
from a single HTTP request but if if
you're not using nextjs there's a good
chance you're using its arch nemesis
remix or react router well a couple
weeks ago they announced that these two
tools are now becoming one and the same
it's called remix for a reason in the
future you'll get to remix your remix
code back into react router code but if
that exceeds your tolerance for
Ridiculousness another routing option
can be found in the tan stack it
provides a variety of tools that work on
multiple Frameworks including react but
what's interesting is that it's cooking
up a new project called tan stack start
that provides features like server side
rendering thus making next JS and remix
completely obsolete now speaking of
react another hugely awesome new feature
is million lint this comes from the same
guy who figured out how to make react a
million times faster and basically it's
an editor plugin that can analyze your
code to find performance issues it's
really a no-brainer for any react
project but you know what screw react
it's time to move on to post react
Frameworks like solid JS which just
released solid start version 1.0 it's a
meta framework like nextjs 4 Solid but
everything is served minimal and all a
cart like you can even take the default
file system routing and customize it to
work the way you want it to pretty cool
but spelt has even bigger changes in
store a few weeks ago they dropped the
spelt version 5 release candidate with a
radical new RuneScape like experience
instead of using plain JavaScript to
identify reactive data you now use runes
which are like compiler macros that tell
spelt how to identify reactive data
under the hood these are backed by
signals just like solid JS but another
big framework also just got signals
angular 18 was released a few days ago
and now officially supports zoness
change detection you take advantage of
it by writing signals which make your
code easier to read and debug while also
reducing the bundle size thus making the
greatest JavaScript framework of all
time even better vue.js is also cooking
up some new vaporware called Vue Vapor
mode it's a new compilation strategy
that vaporizes the virtual Dom and
instead surgically updates the regular
Dom to squeeze out every last bit of
performance from an already very fast
framework another big update is the
release of quick 2.0 a highly underrated
JavaScript framework however if you're
having a hard time keeping track of all
these Frameworks an adjacent tool you
should know about is mitosis it comes
from the same team that built quii and
basically it allows you to write
components using a subset of jsx then
compile them to any framework like react
view spelt Etc it's a JavaScript
framework for Frameworks for Frameworks
for Frameworks and can even turn your
figma components into framework code
pretty cool but we also have a huge
update from the anti-f framework HTM X
they just drop version 2.0 and this
changes everything it's a JavaScript
framework update where literally almost
nothing changed at all but if you're a
real OG who never bought into the
JavaScript framework hype you're likely
still using jQuery and they just
released version 4.0 this release
doesn't add a bunch of new unnecessary
features instead it removes a bunch of
bloat which is the final phase of
Enlightenment for a JavaScript framework
but I'm still on this side of the bell
curve and just updated my Astro project
to use the react 19 compiler which
enables a cool new feature called Astro
actions with actions we can submit an
HTML form then write a function that
handles that form submission on the
server making it easy to handle the form
State as well as UI updates on both the
back end and front end but one of my
favorite new backend JavaScript
Frameworks is hono I used it in my new
stripe course for fireship pro members
but the framework authors just released
a new project called hono X which
provides serers side rendering like
nextjs with client side hydration for
your frontend components but allows you
to bring your own renderer to truly
customize the way the framework works
but in order to use any JavaScript
framework you'll likely need a package
manager like npm well there's a new
package manager in town called jsr and
it comes from the team behind Dino it
automatically transpiles all your
typescript code and generates the API
documentation but most importantly it
finally puts JavaScript developers on a
registry so you can identify where they
live in your neighborhood and keep your
children away from them and there you
have it 15 awesome new JavaScript
framework features for 2024 but if you
really want to learn how to build cool
web apps it's far more important to
learn how to problem solve like a
programmer you can start making that
happen for free thanks to this video
sponsor brilliant as I've said many
times before the best way to learn is to
learn by doing Brilliance platform will
introduce you to essential programming
Concepts but most importantly the
Hands-On exercises will develop your
brain to recognize and solve complex
problems that developers need to
overcome on a daily basis best of all
every lesson is concise and rewarding by
investing just a few minutes each day
you'll develop habits that can level up
your programming skills for the rest of
your life and you can do it anywhere
even from your phone to try everything
brilliant has to offer for free for 30
days visit brilliant.org fireship or
scan this QR code for 20% off their
premium annual subscription this has
been the code report thanks for watching
and I will see you in the next one
