hey how you doing so JavaScript is the
most popular programming language in the
world today and for the foreseeable
future and it's not because it's the
best there's no such thing as the best
programming language that does not exist
it's a fantasy it's a fantasy so why is
Javascript the most popular language in
the world today well because it it's the
only game in town in terms of the web
browser
so that gives it a nice stable base to
work off of and because developers had
this weird idea that somehow having the
same language on the server and on the
client that's the web browser client is
the web browser since they thought that
was better uh JavaScript has been widely
implemented to work on the back end as
well on the server backend is
server with node so uh yeah there you go
that's the main reason why now it's also
a very light in Nimble language
uh it's not verbos like we see in Java c
not that I'm picking on Java
C and uh there you go
so the problem with JavaScript though is
that it's a huge mess at the same time
you
got 100 million Frameworks to choose
from a new framework comes out every 69
seconds and of course that new framework
is the best framework since sliced bread
so I'm Uncle Steph I've been developing
for three decades for longer than you've
been alive probably so I'm just going to
give you my uh ancient
nerds perspective on JavaScript so I
went looking around on the interweb so
you don't have to and we're going to
look at some data with regards to
JavaScript Frameworks and so on so
buckle up because it's going to be not
very interesting all right so I started
looking around and within about 15
minutes I fell asleep but I did get some
good information so let me just jump
into the first site here so we got this
uh Lambda test site so I give them a
little shout out because they put out
this very thorough article I have
nothing to do with them though I don't
know if their product is any good but
this article is interesting and we'll
look at others so 27 best JavaScript uh
Frameworks in
2024 so let's look at some data in terms
of popularity so here's a
survey
uh as per the state of JS 2022 survey
here are eight best JavaScript so it's
from
2022 anyway no it's yeah up to 2022 so
you can see I don't know let me see if I
can zoom in
here so uh you see in 2016 react was 53%
angular 20% Ember 14% view 10% so we're
going to zoom forward to 2020 2 and I
believe the trends have continued you
see react is by far dominant
82% angular 49% I'm suppli I'm surprised
it went up to be honest with you
actually went down from uh it peaked in
2018 2019 so it's actually on the way
down and you can see on the top blue
here react is actually it's hovering
around the same for several years now
Vue uh vuejs which was at 10% 2016 it's
really jumped up when 10 22 32 47 49 51
back down
46 so um anyway so you got these other
Frameworks as well so what you have to
do as a developer is uh you're going to
have to learn every single framework
that's out there because they're all the
best okay you don't have to learn every
single framework that is out there if
you want to get into advanced JavaScript
development
my advice is concentrate on your
fundamentals of JavaScript first of all
you have to know the core language you
have to know core Dom manipulation then
back up look a little bit at node maybe
spend two three days on
nodejs and then once you got your head
wrapped around that just again just the
basics I'm not say you're not going to
be an expert at node in two three days
but you're just going to get your head
wrapped around the basic if you
understand the foundations of JavaScript
well enough so so the next thing you do
is you jump into I would pick uh maybe
the top three framework to spend two
three days on each just to get your head
wrapped around them so you kind of
understand what they are all about right
again uh all these JavaScript Frameworks
I would consider these need to nerd
Technologies meaning you only learn them
when you need to learn them based on
jobs so you see here the top three right
now well in 2022 and I'm sure the trend
is about the same as react angular View
so I would spend two three days on react
two three days on angular two three days
on view you're going to see you're going
to learn these pretty quickly again the
basics I'm not saying you're going to be
an expert at least but you can
understand and if you uh feel so
inclined maybe look at schel and Ember
and others um I wouldn't go down into
the the weeds here with these other ones
I wouldn't spend too much time you don't
want to get caught up in tutorial Hell
by the way you don't want to be
continuously
uh researching and so on again Pro
developers they learn their fundamentals
you may learn one Library one framework
rather one library and then you just
want to get into the game you want to
start building web apps websites you
don't want to start you don't want to be
a Perma student that's not the way to go
developers in the first uh the first 3
to four years is when you really learn
the craft you get paid to learn these
things that's a good thing so in this
article they say react also known as
react GS is one of the best JavaScript
Frameworks in the front end category it
is an open source friend end JavaScript
library created by the team at Facebook
developers blah blah blah react
introduces a component based functional
and declarative programming style for
Creative interactive user interfaces for
mainly single page web
applications react delivers blazingly
fast fast rendering making making use of
virtual Dom so they go into it I will
skip those details so let's see what
they say pros of react it's component
based reusable components that's good uh
easy integration easy integration of the
front end and backend Frameworks like
the popular PHP framework laravel to
work seamlessly without a hitch uh
Direction data flow main difference
between react JS follows a downward
directional data flow
architecture this ensures that a Child
El element cannot affect a parent making
the code more stable and less prone to
errors all right simpler syntax that's
good virtual Dom okay cool SEO all right
so it's SEO friendly yeah that makes
sense because if what's seo seo short
for search engine optimization a
traditional single page applications uh
because the URLs were kind were hidden
um it would be difficult
for Google let's face that's the only
search engine that people really pay
attention to for the most part
Google would have would have a hard time
indexing these things so with modern
JavaScript Frameworks they create uh
URLs that you Google can use to uh to
better
um snarf up your website so it can uh so
you have SEO
right uh yeah let's go
back continuous Improvement uh Rich
Community that's huge so yeah let me
just comment on that when you're looking
at any technology you have to look at
its adoption in the uh by the community
you don't want to find yourself using
some Super Hyper Niche Tech you may
think it's the best tech since sliced
bread but if nobody's using it it's
you're going to have less and less
Support over time and then you're going
to find yourself uh abandoned uh this
Tech being abandoned and you're going to
have websites or web apps based on a
technolog that is no longer relevant no
longer being supported that's big
trouble I've been there don't do that
make sure that there is a good Community
backing a particular technology whether
it be JavaScript or any technology
really don't uh find yourself in some
hyper Niche Tech so um the community is
a huge part of it so one of the first
things I look at I look at Community
Support so what are the cons although
jsx is simpler syntax but it's easy to
read and comprehend it might present an
additional learning barrier okay many
developers feel react as much as a much
steeper learning curve and Bloated
complexity uh van key rival Frameworks
like Vue and other best JavaScript
Frameworks yeah I uh I've talked about
this many times for my learning SAS
Studio web we use
view for that reason react is often
played with complaints about poor
documentation and cannot catch up with
the new releases and features forcing
developers yeah well this is a
JavaScript thing when you have a uh
what's the word I'm looking for not an
environment but when you have a tech
that moves so quickly uh documentation
is often a problem don't undercount that
by the
way often times what makes a particular
technology useful is how good the
documentation is so don't undercount
that don't I uh I stress that I've seen
it again per firsthand documentation is
huge so lots of big websites use react
right Airbnb and so on so next one's
angular so angular angular uh open
source framework by Google so angular is
more um I would say it's
Enterprise so in 2022 they say angular
has ranked as the number two front end
best JavaScript fror in the state of JS
2022 survey so it's a survey I'm not
sure what the usage rates are uh stack
Overflow developers in 2023 said angular
was r f was ranked fifth for front end
jobs scpt Frameworks with 17% positive
response so it's quite opt it's quite uh
big uh I going to registered a massive
3.5 million weekly uh downloads on
npm uh npm is the uh node package
manager it's the way you share libraries
in the JavaScript world uh so they give
you the pros here I'll put the links
below so you can read all this stuff
yourself if you're really really really
uh bored one day get up uh so what's
this cool a component base cool server
performance cool MVC I like MVC MVC is a
design
pattern it's short for model view
controller it's just a way that you
organize your code into logical chunks
and it's uh company a language called
small talk I think it is Small Talk
invented that design pattern way back
200,000 years
ago and uh yeah everybody's adopted it
I'm a big MVC guy I was doing that in
the 90s with uh
even classic ASP but mainly in
Java all right two-way data binding one
key feature of angular is two-way data
binding which forms a link between the
model layer and the view layer in such a
way that each one reflects the change in
the other however other rival Frameworks
have adopted a one-way data B biing for
Simplicity H that's uh again A lot of
times when you're looking at specific
features of a framework the thinking
behind um how the framework
Works often times the choice between one
or the other depends on the type of app
you are working on and the needs of an
app so that's why I say you learn the
basics of let's say the top three so you
can again not becom an expert just don't
spend months on this spend you know a
few days on each so at least you get an
idea of what's going on here and you may
say okay for this particular app angular
might be better or for that particular
app react might be better right
uh massive Community third party
Integrations you know generally speaking
from my uh
understanding angular is is is really uh
for big big huge websites react can you
be us can be used on big websites but it
can also it's actually more approachable
could be wrong that was I haven't looked
at these things closely in years so you
know they it for what it is cons typt
to use angular you must use typescript
typescript is uh it's basically a
modified JavaScript if you will strongly
typed which makes it more secure uh
amongst other things uh apparently a
poses a big learning challenge to new
developers yeah you know typescript is a
big barrier to entry and explains why
angular has struggled against View and J
react in
view if you know your JavaScript well
you should be able to get into
typescript pretty easily it's heavy and
Bloated yeah yeah that's how it was back
in the
day uh so heavy bloated 550 600 kilobyte
file not good which might not be suited
for small scale applications as I
said angular is more of the Enterprise
level stuff you're looking at heavy duty
heavy duty uh
websites poor SEO no SEO so yeah it's
it's more that to me heavy bloated
poo I would see oh maybe I should show
you this heavy
bloated and poor SEO to me that screams
interprise development mean huge
organization not maybe
for not so much for selling product not
a not for light Nimble sites uh who need
to sell product and it's for Enterprise
level application banking sites that
kind of stuff view this is what I use
this is what we use in studio web open
Source lightweight framework okay let's
look at Stats always like stats view has
been has been placed at number three in
the list of best JavaScript Frameworks
for front end in the state of 2022
survey so this is a survey this is
people's opinions right so that really
tells you that it's probably the third
most used uh 46% of JavaScript devs
currently use View and pledge to keep
using it while 50% have shown Keen
interest in using it so lots of you b
boom 4.8 million weekly downloads so
bigger than re angular strongest Ace r
view is Simplicity any react or angular
developer can pick up view in a
heartbeat without breaking a sweat yep
the structure of view is simple and
enables you to code more with typeless
syntax view use a single file component
system meaning that HTML CSS and
JavaScript deide in a single file for
any given component built-in MVC all
right like that easy to learn boom boom
boom very cool you see one things you
have to understand is the
developer when companies are looking at
Technologies they look at a lot of fun
factors but one of the factors they look
at is how easy it is to get people new
developers trained in a particular Tech
that to me is a huge issue
especially especially for uh smaller
companies like my businesses are all
small businesses and so small easy to
learn lightweight Technologies what I
always look for uh amongst other
things another key Advantage it's
surprisingly white lightweight given the
size of its impressive prowess zip
version of you is barely 18 to 20 kiloby
that's pretty small much lighter than
the bloated bulky rifles like reacting
angular so that to me is huge I like
that uh cannot be integration cannot
only be used to create application from
scratch at blazing fast space could also
Poss integrated into existing web app
seamlessly without any trouble yeah view
is
um I think it still is like it's default
it is the default framework or library
for PHP laravel which is the the
dominant uh MVC framework for the PHP
communities con small
community so it doesn't have the backing
of Facebook Google like reacting angular
but view has indeed managed to create a
community of backers on GitHub view has
360 360 plus contributors which is
decent but nowhere closer to the ranking
react Joys at 1 1
1,600 that's still pretty good I think
you're pretty good I'm think you're
pretty safe with react limited
employment
opportunity yep you got to look at that
like any technology I always tell of
course Adobe uses it Apple Swift
UI laral lar well lar cast laral
Nintendo
uh stack Overflow so you got a lot of
[Music]
um BMW so you got a lot of big companies
that
use uh Vue so I think you're pretty safe
there Ember open source good scalable
single page web page for business model
view model view view model architecture
is the foundation for Ember unlike other
Frameworks we have discussed Ember was
originally a sprout Cor 4 2.0 framework
that was renamed Ember to by its creator
Yehuda cats an accomplished developer
created as one of the chief creators of
jQuery huh one of the most adoring key
features Ember is Ember command line
interface tool which a productivity
Powerhouse not bad even though Ember is
an older front-end JavaScript framework
compared to react VI felt Shelt it's
still packs a punch it has big user
based with major companies like
Microsoft LinkedIn twitch okay rank
number four
in the uh JavaScript Frameworks in this
survey here what are the cons steep
learning curve no good highly complex no
good highly opinionated opinion senses
any deviation from things in a standard
way might lead to frustrating problems
that's no good uh stagnation in popular
software stagnation over the last few
years falling to attract failing to
attract new developers so you know
anyway I'll stop there I'll just link to
the article so I'm H I'm providing some
value in this uh stream stream that's
not a stream so let's uh I have another
site here and uh yeah so here's a visual
presentation of uh so number one is
react to express three next for J jQuery
five U six what the hell is this Vite I
never heard of Vite anyway so this is uh
A visual representation I think a plot
of uh JavaScript Frameworks so they have
a nice summary here I'll put the link to
that one as well uh react angular view
Ember backbone so same cast of
characters how many JavaScript
Frameworks are there about
800,000 uh so I wouldn't get too
concerned about them all which are the
best JavaScript Frameworks to learn yeah
you know I would say learn the basics of
react the basics of view and learn node
that would be my choice and then from
there you'll be able to assess all the
other Frameworks very very easily and
comparatively speaking so there you go
that's uh an overview of uh the
JavaScript Frameworks I give you my two
cents of how to approach it don't let it
overwhelm you remember that there's no
developer out there who knows more than
5% that's going on in a particular may
maybe 10% in a particular ecosystem I
can tell you there's no JavaScript
developer who knows all these Frameworks
well uh you might never actually use one
of these JavaScript Frameworks by the
way and if you do you might use just one
maybe two in your career so don't get
don't get too caught up on this uh the
key again is just to
understand the main reason for a
particular framework so somebody will
come up with a framework and say I put
out this framework because I want to
solve this particular
problem so understand that for maybe the
top three
Frameworks maybe have a scattering of
understanding of some of the uh
secondary Frameworks so that when you
come across a project you can make that
decision that being said if this is much
more important
for Freelancers or entrepreneurs where
you're developing an app and you have a
lot a lot of control over decision
making in terms of what JavaScript
components you might use or not use if
you're just getting a job look at the
job market look what's available out
there so again do those three as I
suggested and then
uh react view maybe angular if you want
to work for Enterprise and understand a
bit about node again don't spend too
much time you don't want to be on
tutorial H but just understand what's
going on there and then when you start
looking for jobs uh as I say as I said
in many videos study the prospective
employer look at what they're doing and
Bone up on whatever Technologies they
need from you so you find out their
react health and they use this that and
the other thing learn that reorient
reorientate your resume to emphasize
your JavaScript skills don't be asked
though and then if you do get the
interview you can go in there with
upto-date knowledge about whatever
library or whatever aspects of react or
angular review that they happen to be
using and this will maximize your
chances of uh getting a job in terms of
the tech end that all said apply to jobs
uh where you have skills that align for
that job right so if you don't know
anything about react and you start
applying to for react
positions probably not a good idea
