happy
coding hey there and welcome to the next
video in our series of intro to webdev
um right now we are sort of in the
middle of learning about libraries and
in the last video we learned about
loading a library in your um HTML file
and then using the functions that the
library offers in your JavaScript um and
in this video I am excited because now I
get to talk about my favorite JavaScript
library and that is a library called
p5.js um so yeah I'm going to walk
through it and uh sort of introduce uh
the library itself and then sort of show
you uh how to use it and uh all that
good stuff so let's see so first off um
I want to maybe just introduce a a
concept um it's not a huge deal but it's
the fact that like creative coding is a
thing um so if I just type creative
coding into my search
engine I see a bunch of results and um
you know you can click through them to
learn more but essentially this is the
idea that you can use code to be
creative and hopefully by now that's not
a surprise to you because a lot of what
we've been learning about um is all
about creativity and finding ways to
express yourself and and do stuff that's
interesting to you um but this is a
pretty broad category that ranges from
everything from like um like digital art
to uh things like special effects in
movies to uh like if you've ever been to
a Conor and there's like a Trippy like
background uh that's all written using
Code um
and so there's this idea that you can
write code that helps you be creative
and there's a bunch of ways to do it and
in fact this Wikipedia article um has a
few libraries that um are in a bunch of
different languages and the one that we
are going to focus on is
p5.js um the other way that you might
find p5.js is I don't know if you were
just typed like creative coding
JavaScript library into a search engine
and you'll get a bunch of results and I
I've never played with
and just like any other JavaScript
library the first kinds of things I'm
looking at well first off you know I'm
looking at their homepage and stuff
which they actually updated since the
last time I saw it so this might get
interesting cuz I'm not sure if I'm
going to know exactly where to go um but
the idea is that you're reading through
you're learning more about the uh
Library just on their homepage and then
what you're looking for is some
documentation around how to use that uh
library and a a URL to load the library
in the first place so let's see um I see
download p5.js I see donate um so sure
let's go to download and I'm either
looking for a file that I can download
and looks like I can do that if I want
to um or I'm looking for a URL like this
um so this is a URL that I can use and
load that directly into my index.html
file um so let's uh yeah let's do that
um so I have a glitch project here it's
just sort of a bare bones uh I haven't
touched anything yet uh project in
glitch and let's load the JavaScript
library so I'm going to use a script tag
and I'm going to say Source equals and
then I'm going to paste in what I just
took from the p5js uh web
page and then I'm going to close it out
and close out my tag okay so now I have
loaded the
p5.js library in my index. HTML file and
I can now start to use it I haven't
actually done that yet um but I can do
that and so what I would do if I wasn't
watching this video is to learn more
about p5js uh first off there's a bunch
of like tutorials that you can uh work
through um there's a reference that
gives you a big old list of here's all
of the functions that P5 gives you um
the other place you can go is happy
coding. my little web page and there are
a bunch of p5.js tutorials um on there
so you can click through here and some
of this will be um kind of review for
you um since you have already been
coding in JavaScript but um this is a
good way to sort of introduce yourself
to like the things you can do in the
library so you can do sort of like
visual uh things and here's a bunch of
like example projects that I've put
together um exploring different concepts
in in p5js
um but I think because I am you know the
one recording the video I guess I will
just sort of show you how I would start
a p5.js
project so the first thing I'll do is
I'll go back to my um my glitch project
here and again so far the only thing
I've really done is load the JavaScript
library load the P5 Library so the next
thing I'll do is uh I'll create a a
script.js file of my own um this is
where my code will go you can call this
whatever you want um often uh folks who
are coding in P5 call this sketch. JS
because you're usually like creating
some kind of sketch but it's really up
to you that's just one convention you
can call it unicorn. JS if you really
wanted to U but I I tend to call M
script.js because that's pretty common
uh name so I'm going to say script uh
Source equals uh script.js here and so
now I am loading both the P5 library and
the um in my own JavaScript I haven't
actually done anything yet but I'm just
loading the file
um so again you could go read the uh P5
tutorials but I'm just going to kind of
dive into the code here um so the first
thing that P5 is going to want is a
setup function and usually a draw
function and the way that looks uh is
you just Define a function called setup
and then in here goes some code this is
usually setup code um
and I'll just kind of get started so
I'll call a function called create
canvas and this is a function that the
P5 Library gives me and I'll give it a
size of I don't know 400
400 and maybe just to get something
working I'll give it a background of
like red uh just to just to see it um
and there it is there is my my Red
Canvas it's right there I guess I'm
going to get annoying cuz my face is
going to be in the way but um there is
my my canvas which I have drawn a red
background it is pretty annoying that
glitch doesn't recognize these as
functions because they are in the
library um but you can I guess just
ignore those uh errors for now because
they're not really errors um as long as
it works over here you're
good so uh how did I know to call create
canvas and background so first off like
I have used P5 quite a bit um just cuz I
think it's a really fun Library um but
the way I Learned was by going through
these tutorials and going through this
reference so um this reference contains
pretty much every function that P5 gives
you and so let's see if I can find the
create canvas uh
function
um you always do like a contrl f or
create
canvas there it is under rendering so if
I click that I will get more information
and you can read through and learn more
but essentially what you do is you call
create canvas which creates
a a canvas a square usually or a
rectangle um that you can then draw to
and currently I am just drawing a
background to it um so similarly you can
read more about the background function
if you want um so here's background and
you can read all about the different uh
parameters it can take and uh how to set
different colors this is going to be
pretty similar to some of the CSS stuff
we've done um but it's it's a start um
and then from here I can start to draw
maybe like shapes so uh maybe I'll draw
a circle so I can find a circle function
draws a circle sure and I can read
through this here's some example code
where it's uh creating a canvas drawing
a background and then drawing a circle
um you can usually um ignore this
describe uh this is for things like
screen readers and if you want to
investigate that that's totally cool um
but a common sort of misconception is
that the describe function tells P5 what
to draw and it it doesn't um this is a
way for you to describe your sketch to
people who who who can't see it um so
anyway we're going to focus on this
circle function and you can learn more
about like what exactly those numbers
are so x y and d and that's the location
and then D is its width and height okay
so if I go back to uh my code here I can
draw a circle and I'm just going to put
some kind of random numbers in there so
I'm going to say like I don't know
20050 maybe and there is my circle and
without even really reading in a ton of
depth about like exactly what parameters
do what um you can just play around
that's one of the things I really like
about P5 um and like coupled with this
glitch editor I think is a really good
combination um cuz I don't know what
happens if I change this 100 to a 150
let's
see and it moves down a little bit if I
change it to a
200 moves down even further if I change
it to like a 250
moves down even further and same thing
over here if I change this to a 100 what
happens moves to the left if I change it
to I don't know like a
300 uh moves to the right and then
finally if I change this to I don't know
100 gets a little bigger if I change it
to I don't know like
10 uh it gets teeny tiny still in there
but it's pretty small um so you can kind
of learn what these uh parameters are
for and this is the X uh value so left
to right you're saying put this 200
pixels over um the second one is your y
position which is like from top to
bottom so top is actually zero which is
a little weird but um if you think of
the top as where like the web page
starts then it makes a little bit more
sense um and then finally the size just
the how wide it is um so if I change
that back to 100 it gets a little bigger
um okay so then from there it's a matter
of like figuring out what other shapes
you can draw what other things you can
do and for that your best friend is the
P5 reference and so you can draw all
kinds of stuff you can draw uh sort of
these primitive shapes like triangles
and rectangles you can also get really
involved and do things like you know 3D
uh sort of modeling you can draw uh
different kinds of colors you can use
typography to like have different fonts
and um like text sizes you can show
images all this good stuff and you can
get really involved um in in like really
Advanced like visualizations um and it's
really fun um but the next thing I want
to sort of show you is another concept
um so I could add a bunch of triangles
and stuff but instead of that I'll
introduce you to uh something called the
draw function so the thing to sort of
notice here is that I defined the setup
function but I never actually called it
anywhere right so like in my
index.html you might expect like body on
load equals setup or maybe a button on
click equals setup but I don't have that
and I don't need it because P5 is
actually calling it for me um so P5 has
internal logic that I don't really need
to worry about that automatically calls
various
functions and setup is one of them um so
if I go to reference I'm sure setup is
in here um yeah setup so you can read
more about that but this is uh
automatically called by P5 one time at
the very beginning um there are many
other functions that P5 calls
automatically at different times and one
of the the most common ones is the draw
function so if I have
function um
draw and let me maybe move some of my
code maybe I'll move my circle into
draw and you'll see that my circle is
still there so P5 is calling the draw
function um and where it gets
interesting is okay so what I should say
is and if this is already enough for you
you're like okay I can draw different
shapes and that feels that feels like
enough and um if you're excited about
like okay let me just draw a bunch of
shapes and like let's just get something
working on the screen that's totally
cool and you can you can sort of stay
there and hear some examples like if you
want to draw an animal here's an example
that draws an animal if you want to draw
a Jacko Lantern here's an example that
draws a Jacko Lantern so if I go here to
that code um here it is I'm calling a
bunch of P5 functions pass in arguments
and parameters to um draw in this case
um a cute little pig um but you could
draw you know whatever you want um so if
that feels like enough that's cool uh
you can stay there uh however where P5 I
think gets uh extra interesting is the
fact that this draw function is called
60 times per second um so you actually
have uh like a 60 frames per second uh
render Loop it would be called um which
is how you can end up creating
animations so I don't know let's see
what's a what's a good way to do this um
so instead of drawing it at like a
hardcoded 200 200 which is right in the
middle of my canvas um I want to draw
this where where the mouse is for
example um so if I didn't know how to do
that I could go to the reference and
find um like an input section maybe they
changed this around a little bit so I'm
kind of getting used to it okay here it
goes so Mouse
um so I have Mouse X here that's a
variable that the P5 Library gives me
and mouse y so if I go uh back to my
project here and what I'm going to do is
draw my circle at Mouse X and mouse
Y and right now the circle is drawn sort
of in the upper left corner because I
haven't really moved my mouse onto the
canvas yet so it's just 0 0 which is the
upper left corner but but if I move my
mouse into my canvas the circle will
sort of follow me
around and
ooh
um and even with you know just like 1
two three you know maybe five lines of
code I have this like super like
interesting looking uh uh little little
art project here
um and so that's kind of the power of P5
is you can start to have these like
really interactive really visual
projects um and it's just from functions
and variables that are in the library um
so one thing I want to call out is right
now uh Let me refresh this um the
background starts out as red and then I
move my mouse around and it sort of you
know fills up the screen and they they
stick around the old circles stick
around
um and that is because if you think
about how this code is being called or
when this code is being called setup is
called one time at the very beginning
when you first load the page and so it
creates a canvas which adds this uh sort
of rectangular area to the page and then
it draws a red background and then it's
done um and then immediately after that
the draw function is called 60 * per
second and 60 * per second um this code
draws a circle wherever the mouse is so
it's just on top of whatever was there
before so if I wanted to change this so
let's say I wanted to only show like one
Circle not have them sort of add up in
the background like that uh I can move
my call to background um so instead of
calling it only one time at the very
beginning I am going to call it every
frame so now at the very beginning in
setup I create my canvas and that's all
I do I just create my canvas and and I'm
done and then 60 times per second what I
do is I paint a red background which
Paints the whole canvas red and then I
draw a circle where the mouse is so
let's look at what that
does and now I only have a a single
Circle um which follows the mouse round
because I am using the mouse X and mouse
y variables um but the background clears
out the old circles essentially um every
frame um so this is you know it kind of
depends on exactly the uh sort of effect
you're going for whether you want your
old frames to like Stack Up and kind of
paint over top of each other or if you
want to clear out the frame every time
and and draw a new scene um so that is
setup and draw there are other functions
so let's see how do I want to explain
this there's functions like uh let's say
instead of always showing a circle
wherever the mouse is let's say I wanted
to show it only when I clicked so uh I
could read more about this in the
reference but uh here we go uh Mouse
press or Mouse clicked um yeah Mouse
clicked is here or Mouse pressed you
know it's kind of up to you whether you
want it to be like when you first press
or after you click the whole thing you
can play around with with both but let's
see an example of what that looks like
so if I instead have like
function um Mouse
pressed and then in here what am I going
to do I'm going to draw a circle where
the mouse is so I'm going to take this
put it there and then the other thing
I'm going to do is move this background
back to set up so that my um old frames
are not cleared out so now I don't show
any circles yet I'm moving my mouse
around but I don't see a circle but if I
click then I do draw a circle so I can
click around and I can sort of draw with
my Mouse um using like a really small
amount of code because we're relying on
the P5 Library uh so you can explore
other functions there's other functions
uh and it's interesting like if you're
on a phone you have other um sort of uh
functions available to you so you can
get like the tilt of the screen the
accelerometer stuff like that um but
Mouse press will get you pretty far as
well if you're just kind of clicking
around um so that's the idea of using
different functions in P5 these are
different callback functions and the
next thing I will talk about maybe the
last thing we'll see uh is um okay I
have two more things um one is first I'm
just going to get this sort of back to
back to normal without any Mouse pressed
so I'm just drawing a circle um one of
the things I really like about P5 is
that it's a really fun like environment
to play around with the concepts that
we've been learning this entire time um
so if you're like hey I remember that we
talked about like variables and sort of
changing variables over time and I want
to play with that idea um you can so
instead of having like Mouse X Mouse y
maybe I'll create a variable so I'll say
up here I'll say like let I don't know
circle y equals 0 at first and then I'm
going to draw a circle at Circle Y and
maybe I'll just hardcode uh actually
that needs to be like that's the X and
I'll call this circle y
um so right now I am just drawing my
circle at a hardcoded value of 200 so
it's like halfway across the screen and
then a value of circle y um Circle Y is
just zero for now cuz that's all I've uh
set it to um but here's where the magic
comes in if I change the value of circle
y over time I can now create animations
so let's do that so I'll just say like
Circle Y plus plus so I'll add one to
Circle Y every frame and we see the uh
the the ball dropping um and that's
because if you think about how this uh
code is being called Draw is being
called 60 * a second so 60 * a second I
draw a background which clears out every
uh previous frame and then I draw Circle
at Circle Y and then I increase Circle Y
by one so then 1 160th of a second later
uh Circle Y is now 1 and I draw a circle
at
2001 which is 1 pixel lower than it was
the last frame um then next time around
it's two next time around it's three um
so you're increasing Circle Y by one
every frame which lets you sort of have
this this effect where the ball is uh
dropping over time um because you are
increasing that variable and this is
like a just a fun interesting way to
play with the idea of in this case
variables but you can play with lots of
Concepts so just another example um
let's say I wanted to play with if
statements so we learned about if
statements before
and you know we we used them in a sort
of like I don't know website driven way
which is fine cuz here we are we're
learning about web development but you
can also play with if statements in this
more like visual way uh and so let me
see let me just throw together an
example um so I'm going to create a
couple more variables so maybe I'll say
like let um maybe like Circle speed
equals
1 and uh maybe that's enough actually
we'll see um so what I want to do is now
I have my circle y and it's increasing
by one instead I'm going to increase it
by Circle speed um so Circle
speed so this line of code is increasing
Circle Y by Circle speed which is still
just one so this is hasn't really
changed anything but what I can do is
add an if statement and I can say if uh
Circle Y is greater than what if it's
greater than the the height the the
bottom of my frame uh or my my canvas
which is at this point 400 pixels um or
I can go to the reference and is there a
way for me to get the height and sure
enough there is a variable called height
that the um P5 Library gives me so I'll
just use that so if I go here so if
Circle Y is greater than height then I
want to uh maybe multiply Circle speed
by-1 so time equals -1 and let's see if
this works I actually don't know if this
will work let's find out so it's going
down and it's you know hitting this line
of code where it increases by one and
then eventually it triggers this if
statement because Circle Y is you know 0
1 2 3 4 all the way to 396 397 398
399 400 and then it hits 401 and then
this if statement triggers and 4001 is
greater than height which is 400 and so
I reverse the speed of my circle so I
basically just switch this back and
forth between um from 1
to1 um so I could also just say like
equals negative 1 here but um you know
if I have this to be like a five you
know if I speed it up this should still
work um yeah okay but I like it I like
it to be slower than that I think um and
this is you know another like sort of
playground to play with the idea of if
statements this is the exact same
concept that we were using before but
now in this sort of interactive visual
environment um so I can also sort of add
some logic here so I can maybe say like
if Circle Y is less than zero or uh
Circle Y is greater than height so now
it should bounce off both the bottom
which should do in a second yep okay and
now it should also bounce off the top
let's see
hopefully and yeah so it's switching
back and forth between one and negative
1 or if I increase this it would be like
between two and negative2 or whatever it
was um so this is really powerful and
you can do lots of things with this um
and I could sit here and say oh you
could also use for Loops or arrays or
objects um all of the concepts that
we've learned about so far but instead
um if that sounds interesting to you I
will direct you back to uh this page uh
the
p5.js tutorials on happppy
coding. and there's a bunch of uh
examples here so if you wanted to play
with like using variables here's a way
to practice that with some examples um
if you wanted to practice I don't know
here's a couple with if statements uh
here's more about animation so if you
wanted to I don't know it's almost
Halloween so I can I can use my
Halloween examples so here's an example
that shows a little ghost that sort of
um goes back and forth using some of
those Concepts that we talked about and
uh if you look at the code you can see
here's things like here's an array that
we talked about before um here's some
trigonometry if you uh want to get into
that but um these are all Concepts that
we've we've talked about before calling
functions using a for Loop um using an
array these are all the concepts that we
talked about before just kind of in this
interactive environment
um so you can play with all kinds of
stuff getting input or here's for Loops
examples
um or you know arrays objects you know
all of this stuff you can go pretty deep
down the rabbit hole and there's lots of
cool stuff that you can do um and
honestly like I love this stuff like I I
nerd out about this stuff a lot um and
it's a way to just sort of have fun with
code um in a way that you're not like
necessarily like making like a website
for a business you're just messing
around around with code and I I really
love
that um okay let's see so the last thing
that I want to mention is I've sort of
alluded to this a little bit but we
haven't really left like the environment
that we have been in this entire time so
we are using HTML we are using CSS and
we are using
JavaScript the main new thing is we're
using JavaScript libraries um but
hopefully that idea is is relatively uh
straightforward where you're calling
code that other people have written so
you know someone else wrote this
background function someone else wrote
this circle function you don't really
need to worry about like exactly how
does that work behind the scenes um you
can just use it and say okay cool I have
a background and I have a circle um but
you are still in your like standard web
development environment so uh I haven't
really changed any of this text but you
know I could there's nothing stopping me
from doing that um so if I go here I can
change that so I can say like I don't
know bouncing circle
circle and I can change this to whatever
I want like watch the circle bounce and
let's see I can also do things like have
you know other HTML elements so I could
have I don't know my UL Li example in
here so like
Li um you know I I don't know I'm not
going to think too hard lies tigers
bears that's my go-to tigers and bears
and this is just HTML it's it's just
normal HTML that you've been learning
this entire time but it's now like in
this web page alongside this this canvas
element that P5 is giving you um I can
also use CSS so let's see if I wanted to
um add a style for I don't know my my
H1 I could give it I don't know maybe
I'll color it red
and I have my my red H1 I'm just using
CSS just like we have before uh I can
also uh style this canvas itself um so
if I I don't know if I inspect this and
I pop up my developer tools popped up in
its own window um this is an HTML
element oh like got way too big um and
here it is you can see that this is what
gets added to the page it adds this
canvas element which is a normal HTML
tag that lets you draw to it uh using
JavaScript um so it looks like this has
a class of five canvas and uh an ID of
okay default canvas zero there's
probably ways to customize that but I
could also just use an element selector
on my canvas so let's try that so if I
say canvas and I don't know I want to
give it like a border of like a thick
solid black
border and there we go now it has a
border and so what we're doing is we're
mixing all of the things that we've
learned about into a cohesive project
where we're using HTML we're using CSS
and we're using Java JavaScript and
we're even using JavaScript libraries to
create this end result so if I wanted to
I don't know set the background to an
image I could do that if I wanted to add
some more like descriptive text around
my sketch here I could do that and it's
the exact same Concepts that we've been
learning this entire time but um in this
like more like I don't know artistic or
visual or interactive uh project um okay
so that is that's p5.js uh now that you
have learned about JavaScript libraries
you can use my favorite JavaScript
library and you can go down the rabbit
hole and I I think it's a really great
uh environment to to learn about the
like foundations of JavaScript um so
that's one of the reasons I really like
it it's just honestly kind of fun um and
I find myself just sort of playing
around with it every once in a while to
be like oh could I do that could I draw
this like thing that I have in my brain
using P5 um and you know I'm not an
artist but um I think it lets you be
creative and I think that's really fun
so yeah from here you can check out the
P5 tutorials if you want to go uh more
in that direction or you could check out
the P5 reference in fact I recommend
checking out both and scrolling around
and finding interesting looking um
functions and variables and seeing what
they do and playing around uh you can
also uh if you like have an idea that
you want to implement in P5 hit me up
and I'd love to chat through it and like
point you in a direction to like oh
maybe check out this this function or oh
maybe check out this other thing um so
I'm always happy to nerd out about that
stuff uh all right so I'll leave this
video there um the next video will
introduce a a project in P5 but for now
you are now uh armed with the knowledge
that you need to start creating your own
P5 projects uh which is really fun all
right thanks for watching and as always
of course until next time happy coding
