so if you're on coding YouTube a lot
you're going to see a lot of videos that
have the title how I'd learn to code if
I could do it all over again personally
I think that there's a lot of BS in
these videos and I think that for a lot
of viewers you don't know what to do so
today we're going to talk about how I
would learn how to do web development in
2023 if I were just starting out it's a
no BS way to do it though who am I my
name is Dylan I taught myself how to
code during the pandemic and I currently
work full-time as a programmer at a
software startup on my channel I share
all the lessons that I learned on my
journey so if you're new kick back enjoy
the ride let's jump in and if you really
like the stuff make sure to hit that
subscribe button I'm going to give a
quick PSA here learning web development
learning software engineering learning
how to code does not take 3 months
you're going to see a lot of videos on
YouTube telling you that you can become
a Google software engineer in 3 months
and make half a million dollars a year
that's not real I wouldn't believe it
coding is a lifelong learning process it
takes years to master I'm only a few
years in and I still consider my myself
to be an amateur the second thing don't
do Harvard cs50 I'm not saying that it's
a bad course but a lot of people are
going to steer you in the direction of
taking this type of course and
personally I don't think that it's
needed I think that by taking a course
like Harvard cs50 you're further just
kicking the can down the road if I were
starting on day one I would hop on free
code Camp I would start learning HTML
and CSS in the basic web design course
that free c-amp offers that's what I did
that's how I learned it it only took me
3 weeks to learn mind you I was really
putting the hours in every day so that's
why I got through it in 3 to 4 weeks so
I think if you're committed you can do
it in less than a month once you've
completed the web design track on free
Camp I would go on to udemy or something
similar and take a JavaScript course and
learn the basics if I were doing it all
over again I wouldn't try to become a
JavaScript Master understand what a
JavaScript function does before you list
that you're a web developer on your
resume like can you type out a function
in the console like this is a super
basic concept that you should know how
to do this is basic JavaScript once you
finish a basic JavaScript and web
development course on you to me I would
build a project that you're interested
in like ask yourself what are your
interests what are your passions what do
you like don't build a Netflix clone
everybody does that don't build a meta
clone everybody does that like you
should be original do something that is
unique and something that you're
passionate about not what everybody else
wants you to do in advantage of this
approach is that when you're actually
building the thing you're more likely to
enjoy what it is that you're working
working on because you like the stuff
that you're working on it's something
that you're actually passionate about so
for me I'm super interested in career
development so I built a job board in
vanilla JavaScript and I really like
doing that because I'm super interested
in what it is that I was building make
sure that you do it in the language
stripped of any Frameworks this is
important because it reinforces the
fundamental Basics and understanding of
the language of your choice like you
want to know the basics like how to
write a function how to write a for Loop
in JavaScript it's only until after
you've built this project in the vanilla
language of your choice that you can
build it in a framework so after I was
done building this project in vanilla
JavaScript I then decided to rebuild the
project in the framework of my choice
which was react I was able to better
understand react as a result because
like I really understood the basics of
JavaScript this is super important
because a lot of people are going to
tell you that you should immediately
start building in the framework of your
choice taking a quick pause here this
video is not about getting a job I made
a lot of other videos about that which
I'll link up here but I wanted to say
like in my opinion I don't think that
you need to go to a boot camp and I
don't think that you need to go back to
school and get a CS degree the main
advantage of these two options is
honestly just the structure that is
provided and you could also argue
probably the community too but all the
material that is offered it's all free
and cheap on the internet and like if
you want Community just go to a Meetup
they're completely free and Meetup
organizers want as many people there as
possible let's say you have a bug in
your code like go to a Meetup and ask
people I bet that you can figure it out
at that Meetup rather than paying a boot
camp
$177,000 for them to listen to your
problems for you a small rant there's so
many options like there's so much out
there and there's so many people trying
to push you in the direction of paying
them money so they can convince you that
you can get a job in like 3 months like
you might be able to by doing one of
these programs but it's highly unlikely
like you have to put the work in so my
message is this just Google it like
you're going to have to Google it and go
on one stack Overflow whether you're in
a boot camp or doing a CS degree anyways
so like you might as well just get
really good at being resourceful
yourself and like I said go to meetups
for collaboration like if you have a bug
or something go to a Meetup and I'm sure
you guys are going to be able to figure
it out you can also use other resources
like YouTube YouTube is amazing stack
Overflow is great too and as I mentioned
at the beginning of the video like
there's no hacking your brain that's all
a bunch of clickbait BS like you can't
hack your brain to learn how to code
it's a brain it's a muscle I think it's
a muscle like you have to just Google
everything you have to learn to be
resourceful learn how to struggle and
learn how to learn it's not about the
actual coding language or web
development technology itself it's
learning how to learn the actual Tech so
in summary if I were just starting out I
would hop on free camp and do the web
design course it's totally free and
you'll learn HTML and CSS if you put in
the work every single day you'll
probably be able to get through it in 3
to 4 weeks then I would hop on you to me
and take a JavaScript Focus course or
something that's a little more
comprehensive in web development I'll
link a couple of the example courses in
the description and focus on just
getting good at the basics of vanilla
JavaScript and then take all those
skills that you just learned from the
last couple of courses and build a
Project based on something that you're
passionate about don't build a Netflix
clone everybody does that you want to be
original and also the advantage of doing
something that you're interested in is
that you're more likely to keep doing it
because you're interested in doing it
then when you're done building that
project in vanilla JavaScript you can
rebuild it in the framework of your
choice and lastly you have to learn how
to struggle you have to learn how to
learn go and Google it like there's no
brain hacks to this stuff you can't hack
your brain and become more productive
and learn how to code this is stuff that
people try to sell you on the internet
like it's a brain come on you can't hack
it it's not a computer learn how to
struggle and how to gird through
problems the real way the way that
everybody else does it so don't buy into
the BS anyways that is how I would learn
how to do web development in 2023 if I
were just starting out again this is my
bold take this is what I see on YouTube
and what I disagree and agree with so if
you like this content give this video a
like so we can push out to more people
and hopefully motivate and Inspire
others I make a lot of other videos like
this so feel free to check another one
out I appreciate any support on my
channel comment below let me know what
you think until next time peace
