hey everyone welcome back to the channel
today we're going to learn something
really useful for anyone getting started
with JavaScript how to use the if
statement to control the flow of your
code it's super important and by the end
of this video you'll have a solid
understanding of how it works but before
we dive in don't forget to smash that
like button and subscribe to the channel
for more programming tutorials and tips
now let's get into it let's start with
the basics the if statement in
JavaScript allows you to check if a
condition is true and if it is some code
will be executed here's a simple example
to show you what I mean in this case
we're checking if the age variable is
greater than or equal to 18 if that's
true it will print you are eligible to
vote in the console if not it will skip
this part entirely pretty
straightforward right now let's say you
want to do something when the condition
is false as well this is where the else
statement comes in let's tweak our code
a little here if the age is less than 18
instead of doing nothing the else block
will run and print you are not eligible
to vote it's a great way to handle both
outcomes but what if you have more than
two conditions no problem that's where
elseif comes into play for example let's
grade a student's score based on
different conditions with this structure
it checks the first condition score
equal 90 and if it's false it moves to
the next one score 80 and so on if none
of the conditions are true it runs the
else block by default you can even nest
if statements inside each other if you
need more complex logic let's say we
want to check both the age and whether
the person has an ID before allowing
them to enter a club here the first if
checks the age and only if that's true
does the second if run to check if the
person has an ID if either condition
fails the appropriate message is
printed and that's it now you know how
to use the if else and else if
statements in JavaScript to control what
happens in your code based on different
conditions this is essential for making
your programs more interactive and
responsive if this video helped you
don't forget to give it a thumbs up and
subscribe to the channel so you don't
miss out on more programming tutorials
thanks for watching and I'll see you in
the next video
