hey everyone welcome back to the by
twise Tech where we simplify Tech and
make it accessible for all today we're
talking about one of the hottest careers
in the tech world right now is cloud
computing you've probably heard about
cloud computing and how it's
transforming businesses and industries
but have you ever wondered how you can
start a career as a cloud engineer in
today's video I'm going to break down a
step-by-step road map that will guide
you on how to become a cloud engineer
including the skills certifications and
strategies you need to succeed in this
exciting field let's dive in what
exactly does a cloud engineer
do a cloud engineer is responsible for
Designing developing and maintaining
cloud-based systems they work with Cloud
platforms like AWS Microsoft Azure or
Google Cloud to ensure businesses can
store and access data efficiently and
securely over the internet in other
words they help companies move away from
physical servers and into the cloud
which offers more scalability
flexibility and cost
Effectiveness but becoming a cloud
engineer requires a solid understanding
of various Technologies and some key
skills so let's talk about the road map
step one learn the basics of cloud
computing the first step is to
understand what cloud computing is you
don't have to be an expert right away
but you need to get familiar with key
Concepts like what is the cloud types of
cloud models public private hybrid cloud
services virtualization and networking
basics
there are plenty of free resources out
there check out tutorials articles and
introductory courses on platforms like
KERA ax or YouTube to build your
foundation step two learn programming
and scripting next up coding as a cloud
engineer you need to know at least one
programming language some of the most
commonly used languages in Cloud
environments are python popular for
Automation and Cloud native applications
Java widely used in Enterprise level
cloud systems go gaining popularity in
Cloud environments for its Simplicity
and performance Additionally you want to
get comfortable with scripting languages
like bash or Powershell which are
essential for automating cloud
operations step three choose a cloud
platform now it's time to choose a cloud
platform to focus on the three major
players are one Amazon website Services
AWS two Microsoft Azure Google associate
Cloud engineer step four get
certified getting certified is a great
way to prove your skills and increase
your job prospects each Cloud platform
offers certifications that can help you
stand out such as AWS certified
Solutions architect Microsoft certified
Azure administrator associate Google
associate Cloud engineer these
certifications validate your knowledge
of cloud architecture deployment and
troubleshooting most companies look for
certified candidates when hiring so it's
a crucial step in your journey step five
understand code cloud services as a
cloud engineer you'll need to understand
the core cloud
services these typically fall into four
categories compute this includes virtual
machines ec2 na AWS and serverless
functions Lambda na AWS storage cloud
storage options like S3 in AWS blob
storage in Azure and Google Cloud
Storage networking setting up virtual
private networks vpns load balancers and
firewalls to secure Cloud connections
security implementing identity and
access management encryption and
security best practices to protect Cloud
resources mastering these will give you
a strong Foundation to handle real world
Cloud tasks step six Hands-On practice
now that you've got the knowledge it's
time to get your hands dirty there's no
better way to learn than by doing many
Cloud platforms offer free tiers that
allow you to practice building and
managing Cloud infrastructure without
spending any money try setting up a web
server on AWS azour or
gcp automate backups and manage
databases deploy applications using
container services like Docker and
kubernetes building personal projects or
contributing to open-source Cloud
projects is a fantastic way to build
your skills and showcase your abilities
to potential employers step seven apply
for jobs Network finally it's time to
start looking for cloud engineering jobs
update your resume with your
certifications projects and relevant
experience don't forget to network join
communities on LinkedIn GitHub and
Reddit to connect with other Cloud
professionals and stay updated on job
openings and there you have it a
complete road map to becoming a cloud
engineer it's a highly rewarding career
with lots of opportunities for growth
and the demand is only going up if you
stay committed and follow these steps
you'll be well on your way to Landing
your dream job in cloud computing if you
found this video helpful make sure to
like this video subscribe to bite twise
and hit the Bell icon so you don't miss
any of our future Tech road maps and
tutorials
