Alex has just completed his graduation
from Stanford University
one fine day he receives a mail from
Star Trek Technologies for an interview
for the designation of a software
engineer as referred by the University
Alex was really happy and excited about
this and starts preparing for his
interview next week while he was
preparing Alex came across the term
downtime
Alex has no idea what is a downtime
he decided to seek help from his uncle
John a software engineer
John explained that downtime is a
specific time frame allocated to deploy
or update changes for a software product
in a real-time environment
and this happens because most of the
softwares we use today are developed
using the waterfall model
for example
Cisco one of the popular leaders in it
and networking globally is using agile
methodology for their subscription
billing platform SBP as it was
originally developed using the waterfall
model
after adopting the agile methodology
Cisco's product improved its overall
efficiency where defects were reduced by
40 percent compared to the previous
releases and effect removal efficiency
increased by 14 percent
upon explaining what downtime is John
further added that downtime is a small
part of the waterfall model
it is the traditional way of developing
softwares using a software development
life cycle where the whole product is
treated as one single unit and the
development of one phase starts only
after the completion of the previous
phase adding new features or updating
the existing feature in a waterfall
model based product needs a specific
time frame known as downtime to avoid
disturbance in the workflow of an
organization where applying changes in a
waterfall-based product might produce
irrelevant results or product failure
the waterfall model is the earliest or
the traditional model used for software
development where the output of one
phase acts as the input for the
preceding phase consisting of a series
of steps where each phase has specific
deliverables that act as the input for
the next phase as it avoids overlapping
a basis as these phases are dependent on
each other
this method is simple and easy to
understand where prerequisites are
pre-known documented earlier and
Technology remains static where there is
no need for ambiguous requirements due
to the delay in software delivery in
contrast the final version is available
only after completing the entire
software lifecycle process with any
deviations if available
changes in the waterfall model contain
high risk as changes include a new
revised version of the entire software
running the entire series of steps again
and again
for example a tap and pay machine where
the machine first validates whether the
customer's account is funded with
sufficient funds or not and then
initiates the transaction for money
transfer unless the validation is
processed the transaction cannot be
initiated
Alex was curious and asked Uncle John is
there any way to overcome the drawbacks
of the waterfall model
John replies yes agile methodology was
introduced to overcome the problems
faced in the waterfall model where agile
based products are developed by breaking
the entire product process into
microservices or phases which is faster
to execute and deploy changes on the go
there is no need to worry about other or
previous tasks while working on one
particular phase avoiding product
failure
agile based products don't require any
particular time frame downtime to deploy
changes unlike the waterfall model where
the whole product is treated as one
single unit and each process is
dependent on the preceding processes
where deploying changes leads to
downtime how agile products are
developed agile based products are
developed using the agile life cycle at
first the developed product is
implemented in an actual working
environment for reviews from clients and
stakeholders to check its deliverables
and functionality
after client reviews the official
product is launched in a real-time
working environment where agile
methodology focuses on satisfying the
consumer needs by efficiently utilizing
the resources and avoiding additional
risks or deviations in the product for
example providing a trial beta version
of the software for the end user to
experience the software towards its
deliverables and results will be helpful
in refining and reviewing the product
like Adobe Photoshop Adobe Illustrator
Etc
after understanding all about agile
methodology
Alex asks Uncle John for companies
implementing agile in their workspace
nowadays
John replies yes
companies are moving towards agile
methodology due to its flexibility and
advantages over traditional systems by
adopting agile for their Sony
interactive environment Sony noticed a
major difference where there was a
reduced planning Time by 28 with their
framework and downtime was reduced to
the maximum which made the company save
30 million dollars a year so here's a
question for you what makes agile
different from waterfall Model A it is
dependent on microservices B Agile
consumes more time
C the process is broken down into
several phases d none of the above
please give it a thought and post your
answers in the comments section below
three lucky winners will receive Amazon
gift vouchers
agile methodology aims to meet the
consumer's requirements to the maximum
in deploying changes in a rapidly
developing environment where agile
Manifesto principles brings an
Innovative set of rules and protocols to
help developers overcome the challenges
faced in the traditional practices
waterfall model making agile flexible
and efficient we hope you enjoyed this
video if you did a thumbs up would be
really appreciated here's a reminder to
subscribe to our Channel and click on
the Bell icon for more on the latest
Technologies and Trends thank you for
watching and stay tuned for more from
Simply learn
[Music]
