if you're looking to break into devops
or want to level up your skills you're
in the right place today I'm sharing the
complete devops road map I'll walk you
through the essential skills you need
the tools I personally recommend and how
much time you should spend on each
assuming you dedicate 3 to 5 hours of
studying every day this road map should
take you about 10 to 14 months to
complete let's Jump Right
In first off we have Linux fundamentals
Linux is the backbone of servers and Dev
vment environments as a devops engineer
you'll be setting up and maintaining the
infrastructure where applications run
most servers use Linux so getting
comfortable with it especially the
command line is crucial I recommend
starting with learning bash which is the
most commonly used shell and scripting
language in Linux spend about 2 to 3
weeks on this make sure to learn basic
Linux commands for working with the file
system permissions and ownership
processes and signals as well as
managing packages next you need to learn
networking Concepts networking is all
about how computers communicate with
each other think IP addresses and
protocols you need to understand how
data moves around security and
troubleshoot network issues to get
hands-on experience I recommend using
wihar dedicate around two weeks on this
make sure to learn Concepts like OSI and
tcpip models IP addressing and
subnetting DNS and DHCP networking
protocols like HTTP https FTP and SSH
firewalls and security groups and basic
Network troubleshooting using tools like
Ping trace route and net stat now let's
talk about git git is a version control
system that lets you track changes in
your code and collaborate with others
it's essential for working on projects
with a team and managing your code
effectively spend one to two weeks
getting comfortable with Git make sure
to learn basic git commands like clone
commit push and pull branching and
merging resolving merge conf
working with remote repositories and so
on after that you should dive into
programming languages programming
languages like python Ruby and go are
used to automate tasks and manage
configurations while there are several
other languages I personally recommend
python for its Simplicity powerful
libraries and versatility dedicate four
to 6 weeks to build a solid foundation
in Python make sure to Learn Python
syntax and data structures like lists
dictionaries sets and topples modules
and packages learn how to write and
execute Python scripts work with files
handle errors write automation scripts
and so on by the way to help you on this
journey I've created a free
supplementary PDF that breaks down the
specific Concepts you need to learn for
each skill it's a great resource to
review your progress find gaps in your
knowledge and prepare for interviews you
can find the link in the description box
also I have a bunch of tutorials on this
channel and complete courses on my
website if you're looking for structured
learning again links are in the
description box moving on let's talk
about Cloud providers Cloud providers
like AWS Azure and Google Cloud platform
offer a range of services for building
and deploying applications if you're
just starting out I recommend focusing
on one cloud provider and AWS is a great
choice because it's the most widely used
spend about 4 to 6 weeks on this make
sure to learn how to launch configure
and manage virtual servers store and
manage data get familiar with is
managing users groups and roles and how
to set up and manage isolated networks
next up is containerization
containerization is all about packaging
an application and its dependencies into
a container to ensure it runs the same
everywhere Docker is the go-to tool for
this spend about 3 to four weeks getting
comfortable with Docker learn how to
create Docker images get familiar with
starting stopping and managing
containers learn how to write Docker
files explore how to define and run
multicontainer applications using Docker
compos and so on now let's dive into
continuous integration and deployment or
cicd cicd automates the integration and
deployment of code changes allowing for
frequent and reliable releases genkins
is a powerful tool for setting up cicd
pipelines but other popular tools
include gitlab cicd Circle CI and Travis
C if you're starting out just focus on
Jenkins for its versatility and strong
Community Support dedicate 3 to four
weeks on this make sure to understand
how to create and manage Jenkins
pipelines get familiar with writing
Jenkins files learn how to integrate
automated tests into your pipelines
understand how to automate the build
process for your applications explore
how to automate the deployment of your
applications to various environments and
so on moving forward let's discuss
orchestration and management
orchestration tools like kubernetes and
Helm help automate the deployment
scaling and management of containerized
applications these tools are essential
for managing complex applications in
production start with kubernetes and
spend about four to 6 weeks on it make
sure to learn about the overall
architecture including the master node
and worker nodes and how they interact
understand the key components such as
pods services and deployments get
familiar with managing resources learn
how to scale your applications as well
as the networking model in kubernetes
next we have networking and
infrastructure services this involves
setting up and managing services like
reverse Proxes forward Proxes caching
servers firewalls and load balancers I
recommend using engine X for handling
reverse Proxes and load balancing give
this about 3 to 4 weeks of your time
learn how to set up and configure engine
X as a reverse proxy understand how to
configure it to act as a forward proxy
explore caching strategies to improve
the performance and how to configure
firewalls and security groups now let's
talk about configuration management
configuration management tools like
anible puppet and Chef automate the
deployment configuration and management
of servers and applications if you're
starting out just focus on anible due to
its Simplicity and Powerful features
spend 3 to four weeks on this learn how
to write anible playbooks understand how
to use roles and modules learn to manage
variables and templates and so on moving
on let's discuss infrastructure as code
or IAC IAC involves managing and
provisioning Computing infrastructure
through machine readable configuration
files popular tools include terraform
AWS cloud formation and palumi if you're
starting out just focus on terraform for
its flexibility and widespread use
dedicate 3 to four weeks to build a
solid foundation in terraform understand
the basic concepts like providers and
resources get familiar with writing
terraform configuration files learn how
to use terraform modules as well as
advanced concepts such as workspaces and
remote State finally let's talk about
monitoring and logging monitoring and
login tools such as Prometheus Graff elk
stack and fluent D track the performance
and health of your applications and
infrastructure if you're starting out
just focus on Prometheus and grafana
spend about 3 to four weeks on these
tools learn the architecture and data
model of Prometheus get familiar with
collecting metrics from various sources
learn how to write queries to extract
and analyze metrics data understand how
to set up alerts and so on so if you
dedicate 3 to 5 hours every day you can
follow this road map and pick up all the
skills you need to become a devops
engineer in about 10 to 14 months if you
have any questions please let me know in
the comments below and I'll do my best
to answer you right here or in my future
videos If you enjoyed this video please
give it a like And subscribe for more
useful content thanks for watching
