yo what's up YouTube Welcome Back to the
channel today's video I'm going to give
you guys a breakdown of exactly what I
would do if I had to restart my cyber
security career from scratch in 2024 now
this is a common question that I get to
ask a lot of times especially for those
people who are looking to break into the
industry so with that being said guys if
you're new to the channel my name is Ben
and I make videos about cyber security
and my career and my journey and my
experiences throughout my time in cyber
security so if you guys are new to the
channel make sure to drop me a like for
the YouTube algorithm And subscribe to
the channel if you haven't already I'd
love to have you guys join the family
we're on our way to 50,000 subscribers
also if you guys want more short form
content and lifestyle content be sure to
follow me on Instagram and Tik Tok at
cyberith Ben with that being said though
guys let's go ahead and get right into
the
video so I just finished my first year
working in cyber security full-time and
it kind of had me thinking what I would
do if I had to restart my cyber security
career from scratch so thinking about
this sort of road mapap that I'm about
to explain to you I'm going to be having
no experience what's ever and no
background in cyber security so with
that said the first thing that I would
start off with is going to be getting my
certification using the Google cyber
security professional certificate the
reason why I say that is because first
of all it's going to be extremely
affordable you pay on a monthly basis I
believe it's $49 per month and you only
pay for how much you use the
certification and the course for so for
example if you finish it in one month
you're only going to pay $49 so it's
extremely affordable and the payment
plan is flexible on top of that you
don't need to have any prior experience
when it comes to it or cyber security to
get started so that's going to be a
great way for me to get my foot in the
door and start learning the foundations
of cyber security the Google cyber
security certificate itself is comprised
of eight different courses that go over
eight different concepts in cyber
security and they give you a really good
rundown of exactly how those things work
and it's taught by Google professionals
it goes over things like network
security using Linux and SQL and also
automating different tasks with python
which is overall some really important
skills to have when going into cyber
security and it's really going to help
you be able to make an impact from the
beginning on day one of your first cyber
security job and I believe once you
complete this certificate you also get a
discount code that you can use on the
Security Plus exam so if you guys want
to check out this certificate I'll leave
a link in the description
below so the next thing that I would do
after getting my Google cyber security
professional certificates is that I'd
start looking into getting the Security
Plus certification the Security Plus
certification is going to be one of the
most popular entry-level cyber security
certificates on the market right now and
it's recognized widely throughout the
cyber security industry a lot of
employers for entry-level cyber security
jobs are going to expect you to have the
Security Plus certification on your
resume when you are applying so it
covers a wide range but doesn't really
go in depth but that's the reason why
it's going to be an entry level cyber
security certificates and we'll talk
about a little bit later on in the video
about branching into those more advanced
level certifications I'm going to leave
a link in the description below that has
the Security Plus exam objectiv so feel
free to check that out and also if
you're interested to learn more exactly
how I was able to pass the Security Plus
exam in 9 days feel free to check out
the video that I'll leave in the
description below as well so after
getting the Security Plus certification
from CompTIA I'll next look into the
network plus certification also from
CompTIA a lot of times people prefer
getting the network plus before getting
the Security Plus certification but it's
going to be up to your own personal
preference in my opinion I don't think
it makes a huge difference so the reason
why I mentioned the network plus
certification is because in cyber
security it involves so many different
aspects and it's going to help a lot
when it comes to your networking
knowledge as someone working in cyber
security you're going to have to have a
basic understanding a foundational
understanding of networking Concepts and
understanding how different computers
work and communicate with each other how
data flows and things of that nature so
getting a good understanding of
networking fundamentals from the network
plus certification is going to give you
a huge boost when it comes to your first
entry level job in cyber security so
after those three certifications I'd
look to get an entry-level Cloud
certification so for me personally I
would lean more into the a Cloud
partition or certification just because
more companies are using AWS
infrastructure feel free to check out my
video where I talk about entry-level
Cloud certifications I'll leave a link
in the description below as well so your
main choices when it comes to these
certifications is going to be the AWS
Cloud petitioner certification or the as
900 from Microsoft both of these entry
level certifications are going to teach
you the basics and the foundations of
cloud computing so they're going to
teach you exactly how cloud computing
works the different services from each
of these vendors and things of that sort
and because so many companies that
employers nowadays have some form of
cloud computing and Cloud infrastructure
in place having this on your resume is
going to be so influential and impactful
when it comes to finding your first job
in cyber security if you guys want to
learn exactly how I was able to pass the
AWS Cloud practitioner exam in 7 days
I'll also link that in the description
below so after getting these four
certifications I would look to start
developing my own personal projects and
my own personal portfolio and start
developing my resume to start applying
for entry-level jobs and also
internships I made an Instagram real and
also a YouTube short talking about some
ideas for cyber security projects for
beginners so make sure you guys check
that out I'll also leave that in the
description
below so after developing some personal
projects and adding those to my resume
and beginning to apply for internships
in full-time jobs while I'm doing this
I'll start to look into some more
advanced level certifications that align
directly with what I want to do in cyber
security so for example if I'm someone
who wants to get a sock analist role so
someone who works in the security
Operation Center triaging log
maintaining alerts and things of that
sort I will look into The Blue Team
level one certification it's going to be
an entry level certification for those
looking to get some aak experience and
also some Hands-On lab experience I
passed this certification a few months
ago so feel free to check out that video
as well another example would be if I'm
looking to get into the red team or
penetration testing maybe I'd look into
the PJP offered by TCM security that is
also going to be the equivalent of a
blue Team level one just the red team
version from a good company both of
these certifications are going to be
giving you a foundational understanding
of Blue Team and Red Team respectively
and it's going to give you a good
foundation of both of those aspects so
those are two examples of some more
advanced level certifications for
different aspects in cyber security but
if you want to apply for a specific role
or specific niche in cyber security make
sure you guys look into some more
advanced level certifications and start
studying for those while you're applying
for full-time jobs and
internships so that is going to be it in
terms of the road map for these
different certifications that I would
take to try and break into the industry
again from scratch but one thing I
wanted to reiterate is that a lot of
times certifications are great to have
especially for your resume but skills
are going to be your main priority so as
someone looking to break into the
industry certifications are going to be
a great way for you to make your resume
look better and look more attractive to
employers so these certifications are
going to get you maybe an internship or
maybe your foot in the door but a lot of
times you don't want to neglect just
trying to get certifications you also
want to prioritize really staying in the
moments when you're getting the
certifications really learning these
different foundational basic concepts in
cyber security and don't just rush
through them make sure you really
understand what you're learning what
you're ingesting so don't get complacent
just because you get an entry-level job
make sure you guys continue developing
and continue building your skills
because that's going to be extremely
crucial especially working in the cyber
security
industry with that being said guys that
is going to be my piece of advice and
also my road map if I had to restart my
career in 2024 if you guys found some
insight in this video please go ahead
and drop me a like and also if you're
new to the channel and you're not
subscribed already and you're watching
this video what are you guys doing man
just go ahead and hit subscribe and join
the family we're on our way to 50,000
subscribers which is absolutely crazy
also if you guys want some more short
form content and lifestyle content feel
free to follow me on Instagram and Tik
Tok at cyberith Ben with that being said
though guys thank you so much for
watching this video and I'll catch you
guys in the next one peace
