we all use smart phones but have you
ever wondered how much data it generates
in the form of texts phone calls emails
photos videos searches and music
approximately 40 exabytes of data gets
generated every month by a single
smartphone user
now imagine this number multiplied by 5
billion smartphone users that's a lot
for our mind even process isn't it in
fact this amount of data is quite a lot
for traditional computing systems to
handle and this massive amount of data
is what we term as big data let's have a
look at the data generated per minute on
the internet 2.1 million snaps are
shared on snapchat 3.8 million search
queries are made on google one million
people log onto facebook 4.5 million
videos are watched on youtube
188 million emails are sent that's a lot
of data so how do you classify any data
as big data this is possible with the
concept of five v's
volume
velocity
variety
veracity and value
let us understand this with an example
from the health care industry
hospitals and clinics across the world
generate massive volumes of data
2314 exabytes of data are collected
annually in the form of patient records
and test results
all this data is generated at a very
high speed which attributes to the
velocity of big data
variety refers to the various data types
such as structured semi-structured and
unstructured data examples include excel
records log files and x-ray images
accuracy and trustworthiness of the
generated data is termed as veracity
analyzing all this data will benefit the
medical sector by enabling faster
disease detection better treatment and
reduced cost
this is known as the value of big data
but how do we store and process this big
data to do this job we have various
frameworks such as cassandra hadoop and
spark let us take hadoop as an example
and see how hadoop stores and processes
big data
hadoop uses a distributed file system
known as hadoop distributed file system
to store big data if you have a huge
file your file will be broken down into
smaller chunks and stored in various
machines not only that when you break
the file you also make copies of it
which goes into different nodes this way
you store your big data in a distributed
way and make sure that even if one
machine fails your data is safe on
another
mapreduce technique is used to process
big data a lengthy task a is broken into
smaller tasks
b
c
and d
now instead of one machine three
machines take up each task and complete
it in a parallel fashion and assemble
the results at the end thanks to this
the processing becomes easy and fast
this is known as parallel processing
now that we have stored and processed
our big data we can analyze this data
for numerous applications
in games like halo 3 and call of duty
designers analyze user data to
understand at which stage most of the
users pause restart or quit playing this
insight can help them rework on the
story line of the game and improve the
user experience
which in turn reduces the customer churn
rate
similarly big data also helped with
disaster management during hurricane
sandy in 2012. it was used to gain a
better understanding of the storm's
effect on the east coast of the u.s and
necessary measures were taken it could
predict the hurricane's landfall five
days in advance which wasn't possible
earlier
these are some of the clear indications
of how valuable big data can be once it
is accurately processed and analyzed
so here's a question for you which of
the following statements is not correct
about hadoop distributed file system
hdfs
a hdfs is the storage layer of hadoop
b
data gets stored in a distributed manner
in hdfs
c
hdfs performs parallel processing of
data
d
smaller chunks of data are stored on
multiple data nodes in hdfs
give it a thought and leave your answers
in the comment section below three lucky
winners will receive amazon gift
vouchers now that you have learned what
big data is what do you think will be
the most significant impact of big data
in the future let us know in the
comments below if you enjoyed this video
it would only take a few seconds to like
and share it also to subscribe to our
channel if you haven't yet and hit the
bell icon to get instant notifications
about our new content stay tuned and
keep learning
[Music]
you
