when it comes to business communication
data visualization is really important
of course the structure design and
overall story of your presentation are
all important too but if you have any
data in your presentation at all how you
visualize that data can really make or
break the overall effectiveness of your
message
let's take this chart as an example it
shows tree sales over the last few years
for a local tree nursery but it's
unclear what they're really trying to
tell me compare that instead with the
second chart which shows the exact same
data but the message is much more clear
amidst lackluster sales for most tree
species sales of Kwanzan cherry this
green line right here have grown
steadily since 2020. this might not seem
like much but the difference between
these two charts is really important
they both show the exact same set of
data but in the first chart there's no
clear message whereas in the second
chart the message is clear and easy to
understand charts like that first one
are all over the business World whereas
charts like the second one are a little
bit more rare but the truth is building
a chart like the second one is not that
difficult at all all it takes is
learning a few core principles really
well in this crash course I'm going to
teach you data visualization skills
found at places like MacKenzie Bain and
BCG you'll learn about choosing the
right chart type every single time and
why it really matters for your message
then I'll teach you my best tips for
chart design then at the end we'll do a
complete exercise together I'll go
through every step from raw data to
finish chart and I'll show you where you
can download the same exercise file so
you can follow right along with me plus
as a bonus I'll show you where you can
download this free cheat sheet that's
going to help you choose the right chart
every single time I promise you that by
the end of this crash course if you
truly pay attention and try to apply the
learnings you'll be amazed at how much
more effectively you can communicate
data let's get into it
[Music]
everyone Paul here from analyst Academy
where we teach PowerPoint presentation
design and data visualization training
to consulting firms and finance teams
and all sorts of other teams all over
the world if that sounds like something
you're interested in make sure you check
out our courses over at the
analystacademy.com and if you're
watching this video you might especially
be interested in our data visualization
for Consultants course it's kind of like
this video but way more detailed with
Hands-On exercises case studies quizzes
and a whole lot more so make sure you
check that out again that's the analyst
academy.com the first and most important
part of effective data visualization is
choosing the right chart type
to illustrate this let's take a look at
the example from the beginning of this
video once again this is showing tree
sales for a local Nursery so you've got
your four different tree types here and
it's broken out into different clusters
based on year
this is what's called a clustered column
chart the takeaway for a chart like this
might be something like Kwanzan cherry
became the best-selling species in 2023
which you can clearly see right here
you're comparing each of these different
species against each other and in 2023
is when it first became the number one
selling tree
but then what if you put the data in a
stacked column chart like this now the
emphasis seems to be on the total of
each of these columns you're combining
all the species together so the focus
gets put right here on the overall total
so a message for a chart like this might
be something like overall tree cells
have risen steadily since 2020 driven by
Kwanzan cherry growth again the focus is
on the overall trend but you can still
sort of see the different changes from
year to year now put this data in a line
chart and the message changes entirely
here you can kind of see this Kwanzan
cherry data
increasing over time so a message might
be something like emits lackluster sales
for most tree species sales of Kwanzan
cherry have grown steadily since 2020.
you can kind of see these other trees
they're flat to declining but this one
is growing again this is all the same
data for each one of these charts but
the message is changing ever so subtly
so in the first part of this crash
course I'm going to cover the five major
chart types starting with the most
reliable one the bar chart the primary
purpose of a bar chart is to compare
categories against each other
and this makes sense you can easily
compare the lengths of each of these
lines
it's really easy to see which one is
longest second longest and so on it easy
to read it's precise and it's incredibly
reliable
let's take a look at this example from
McKinsey title says top CEOs identify
disruptive technology the economy and
geopolitics as the most important Trends
to act on in 2023 so what this is
showing is survey results about the
trends leading into 2023 and with a bar
chart it's really easy to see which one
of these is longest second longest and
so on so what they've done is they've
highlighted these top three bars right
here
these are the most important it's clear
it's interesting and it communicates the
message really effectively and that's
what a bar chart is meant for again you
want to compare different categories
against each other in this case these
different trends that way you can easily
see which one is the highest or has the
biggest value or what have you and of
course there's a few different
variations to the bar chart there's a
clustered bar chart which kind of
focuses on these subcategories right
here you can compare this green dark
gray light gray against each other
there's the Stacked bar chart which
focuses on the overall size of these
different subcategories put together
while still being able to show the
relative differences of each of the
subcategories then there's the 100 stack
bar chart where all the bars are the
same length but the subcategories differ
from category to category so you can see
kind of the relative changes
when you're trying to decide between
these different variations the question
you should be asking yourself is what's
easiest to compare with a clustered bar
chart it's really easy to compare the
different subcategories against each
other versus a stacked bar chart it's
easy to compare the overall totals of
all the subcategories put together but
the most important thing to remember
with the bar chart is that it's easy for
comparing categories against each other
the next chart on our list is a column
chart and this one's really similar to a
bar chart and that it's easy to compare
these different categories against each
other but there are a few reasons why
you'd want to use a column chart over a
bar chart and vice versa the primary
reason is that column charts are good
for change over time that's because our
brains naturally read these charts from
left to right
take a look at this example from Charter
it shows the changes in Harvard's
endowment fund by year starting from 99
all the way up through 2022. in the
natural tendency with this kind of chart
is to read it from left to right
so a column chart makes sense whereas a
bar chart might be a little bit more
difficult if it was from top to bottom
notice how with this chart though the
focus is still on the individual columns
and comparing them against each other
this says four percent decrease from
2021 it's comparing the total for 2021
to 2022 emphasize with this Arrow right
here so for this message a column chart
is a really good choice
well the column chart you have the same
variations that you have with a bar
chart you've got the clustered column
chart
stacked column chart and of course the
100 stacked column chart and again the
question you want to ask yourself is
what's easiest to compare with each of
these charts are you comparing
subcategories the category totals or
maybe the subtle changes in categories
over time the next chart I'm going to
cover is a pie chart and this is by far
the most controversial chart in the data
visualization world and there's good
reason for that but the truth is the pie
chart does have its place when it's used
correctly unlike a bar or column chart
you don't want to use a pie chart to
compare categories against each other
the primary purpose of a pie chart is to
compare a value against the total or
compare multiple values against the
total so in Practical terms what this
means is you're taking one slice and
comparing it to the total of the entire
pi and the shape of the pie chart really
lends to this because our brains kind of
naturally associate circles with 100 so
it's not that hard for our brains to
take a slice of this and guess roughly
what the percentage of it is so maybe
this is 55 for example where people
mostly go wrong is when they try to
compare the size of these different
slices against each other this one
versus this one versus this one because
that's pretty hard to do
you'd be much better off
with a bar chart
let's take a look at this McKinsey
example
the title says 63 percent of consumers
pay for at least one loyalty program and
here you have a donut chart which is
basically like a pie chart but with this
kind of Center taken out and what it's
saying is 63 of consumers
pay for at least one of these three
loyalty programs or I guess Amazon Prime
Amazon Prime and others or just other
programs and what it's trying to
emphasize with this title
this section right here
in other words it's saying 63 of people
either have Amazon Prime only Amazon
Prime and other loyalty programs or just
other loyalty programs and this would be
a little bit more difficult to show in a
bar or a column chart or any other chart
for that matter so in this specific case
a pie chart or a donut chart works
really well but if the message were
slightly different let's say the
percentage of non-subscribers is greater
than the percentage of subscribers then
this message wouldn't come through quite
as clearly instead you'd be better off
with
a bar chart the reason for that is it's
really easy to compare the lengths of
these different bars so this would be
non-subscribers
and this would be
subscribers
just like with the other chart there are
some variations to this chart one we
just saw which is a donut chart which is
essentially the same as a pie chart but
with no hole so you can put extra data
in there the only downside to a donut
chart is it's harder to see the internal
angles which for some people can make
things just a little bit difficult but
for the most part they're very commonly
used and a good chart choice
there are some other variations like a
Sunburst chart or a tree map which
follow the same idea as a pie chart but
look just a little bit differently
the next chart on our list is a line
chart and this is good for showing
changes or Trends or patterns over time
it's very similar to a column chart but
the difference is instead of focusing on
each individual column all the points
are connected together so you kind of
focus on the data as a whole
this helps emphasize things like
downward Trends or spikes upward Trends
anomalies in the data things like that
so for example here we have a chart
about the growth in the number of
diversity equity and inclusion roles
since 2015. and if you take a look at
the message here it's talking about a
meteoric rise so a line chart is good
for this because a it's expressed over
time but then B it's showing this like
strong upward Trend yes you could still
see that data in a column chart but it
gets emphasized just a little bit more
in a line chart because you have these
sloping lines
the caution with line charts is you want
to make sure that you're using them for
data that has a natural order to it so
for example time has a natural order but
let's say you had different categories
if there's no natural order to this data
you can put it in any order you want
and you could be showing a trend that
doesn't necessarily exist so be careful
to use this for data that's expressed
over time or in some other natural order
there's a few different common
variations to a line chart one of them
of course is to just put multiple lines
on the chart this is good for a few
different things
one thing is emphasizing how one of the
lines is different than the other but
sometimes you could also have a chart
where you're trying to show that all the
lines kind of follow the same pattern
another variation to the line chart is
an area chart now we go into a lot more
detail on this chart in the course but
basically you can think of it as a
column chart combined
with a line chart
whereas a column chart kind of focuses
on these as values and a line chart
focuses on the overall trend an area
chart does a little bit of both then of
course you have a stacked area chart
and a 100 stacked error chart which
again serve much of the same function as
a 100 stacked column chart where it
focuses on how these how the makeup of
these different categories changes over
time
the next chart on our list is a scatter
plot and this is one of my favorite
charts the primary purpose of a scatter
plot is to show the relationship between
two variables so imagine for example
if this represented weight in this
represented height
generally speaking
the taller someone gets
the more they tend to weigh
and this is represented mathematically
with the coefficient of determination or
r squared so with the scatter plot you
could be showing a few different things
you could be showing positive
correlation you could be showing
negative correlation or you could be
showing no correlation at all which in
itself can be telling sometimes it's
also good for highlighting outliers so
for example if you had a DOT way over
here that you wanted to emphasize or
it's good for just showing where a
specific dot falls on this plot here's a
pretty good example from BCG what it's
showing is price volatility
versus this VRE or penetration of
variable Renewables
and what it's trying to communicate with
this chart actually is that they don't
believe there's much of a correlation at
all
which like I said in itself can be
telling
the other powerful thing about Scatter
Plots is you can add additional
variables to make the information a
little bit more Rich so for example if
you wanted to change the size of each of
the dots if you wanted them to represent
something else then voila you have a
bubble chart and again you have that
much more information to communicate to
the audience you can also change the
color of the dots or you can even change
the symbols themselves however I would
really caution against this unless you
absolutely have to the Temptation with
Scatter Plots is to introduce all these
extra variables it just makes it more
confusing for your audience focus on
your main message and make sure that
comes through clearly in your chart so
when it comes to effective data
visualization ninety percent of the time
you're going to be able to use one of
the five charts we just went over bar
chart column chart pie chart line chart
and scatter plot in a recent video I
remade fancy charts into realistic
slides and in every single case I used
one of these charts and in other videos
I follow the same pattern so the key to
good data visualization is learning when
to use these charts and learning it
really really well the best way to do
that of course is with practice and
repetition but I promise you if you can
focus on this core set of skills you'll
get really really good at data
visualization once again if you're
interested in this sort of topic make
sure you check out our course over at
the analystacademy.com we go in much
greater detail and really explain the
nuances of each of the different chart
types and it's complete with examples
exercises quizzes that sort of thing so
make sure you check it out in addition
to these core chart types there are
additional ways to visualize your data
and we don't have time to get into all
of them now but one in particular that I
want to talk about is tables tables can
be especially good for two reasons the
first is when you need to show precise
values so for example here we have a
basic table that shows sales for
different regions and a few additional
metrics like share growth and the number
of full-time employees in a table would
be really good here if I wanted to show
specific values like the negative growth
values for example for example if my
message was in the east region we saw
negative one percent growth year over
year then this would be a good choice
because I'm calling out a specific data
point the other major reason is if
you're trying to show multiple types of
data in the same space here we're not
just showing sales but we're also
showing the share growth and number
full-time employees and that would be
pretty difficult to display in a chart
is it possible yes but it would just
make things a little bit more confusing
there's a good example of this by BCG so
here's a chart from a presentation about
the New York media sector and what it's
primarily showing is the percentage of
New York Jobs versus total jobs in each
of these different years
so for example in advertising 12 of the
jobs were in New York versus the rest of
the US and then in 2011 that jumped to
13 percent
so if these individual values themselves
are important then a table is a good
choice here
but the primary reason to use a table
here is because you're also showing
these extra information for example
the growth in New York City jobs
these are both percentages but they're
showing fundamentally different data
plus you have these numbers down here
where you're showing absolute values
these are salary numbers
trying to put all this information in a
chart would be difficult and confusing
so here the table is a good choice all
right now that we've talked about the
different ways to visualize your data
let's talk about design best practices
now there's a lot of different things I
could talk about here but I'm going to
boil it down into two key ideas
the first is to make sure your message
is clear
now this sounds like a pretty basic
thing but you'll be surprised how many
people really mess this up
you have an overall message that you
want to communicate make sure that
message comes through very clearly in
the chart itself and there's a few
different ways you can do that let's
revisit this chart from McKinsey
remember it's just a simple bar chart
comparing these different Trends against
each other but they do a few different
things to call attention to the message
of the chart which is that these three
Trends disruptive technology economy and
geopolitics are going to be the most
important Trends to act on in 2023. the
first thing is they have a clear title
and this is the easiest and most
important thing you can do for effective
communication have a clear title that
explicitly communicates the message
you're trying to tell the audience
the other thing they've done is they've
highlighted the bars themselves drawing
attention to them as the most important
Trends and of course they've ranked
these Trends in order to make it that
much easier these are subtle things but
they have a huge impact in the overall
Clarity of your message
figure out what your message is and find
a way to communicate that clearly there
are a few other things they could have
done they could have put a box around
These Bars maybe an arrow some
additional text right here all of these
are ways you can draw attention to your
message which again is really important
another really important principle of
good chart design is removing the
Clutter from your chart you'd be
surprised how many things you can take
away from your chart that really don't
matter to the overall message or to the
data itself here's an example from The
Economist that highlights this really
well the title itself is really simple
the subtitle and explanation also very
simple and clear but notice how there's
not even any axes on this chart there's
no data labels right here to clutter the
message all it is
are the categories
labels in the bars themselves and notice
also that they only use one color for
this chart
all those things are a deliberate effort
to help you focus on the actual data and
not on anything else we actually did a
whole video on The Economist and why
their charts are so effective so if
you're interested in stuff like that
I'll include a link down in the
description
so really good chart design comes down
to two things emphasize your message in
the chart and remove the Clutter frame
chart and if you can do those two things
and do them really well your charts are
going to look a whole lot better
all right now that we've covered the
basics let's walk through an exercise
together
all right so we're going to keep this
really simple here's the data actually
from the table example earlier and all
it shows is
sales by region the share of sales for
each region year over year growth and
sales FTE if you want to follow along
with this exercise yourself I'll include
a download link in the description below
or instead of following along you can do
the exercise yourself first and then
come back and see the solution here on
the video
so let's say your manager says Hey I
want you to help me understand the
relationship between overall sales for
each region and sales FTE all right so
we have our data here we just need to
figure out which chart type is going to
be best for emphasizing that message
going through each of the different
chart types first you have a bar chart a
bar chart would be good for comparing
these different categories against each
other but that's not necessarily what
we're doing for example we're not trying
to say that sales in the north is
greater than sales in the Southeast or
that East Central or excuse me South
Central has greater sales than all of
them a bar chart would be great for that
but that's not what we're doing and
likewise a column chart we're not
comparing these against each other and
we're not doing it over time so column
chart doesn't really work either
same thing with the line chart we're not
really trying to show the trend of any
particular set of data we're trying to
show the relationship between these two
sets of data so line chart is out also a
pie chart would be good for example if
we were trying to say that East and East
Central account for a certain percentage
of the overall sales but that's not what
we're trying to show again we're trying
to show the relationship between these
two variables so as you might have
guessed the scatter plot is going to be
a good choice here all right so let's
put this data into a scatter plot and
see what it shows us by the way for this
exercise I'm going to use a tool called
amplar charts it's the chart building
tool that we use and recommend over at
analyst Academy it's really robust lots
of excellent functionality and it makes
chart building really really simple and
easy it's built right into PowerPoint
here you just select the chart that you
want you can customize it really simple
and easily which you're going to see
here in a second but again it's
something we recommend you can get a
free one month trial by following the
link in the description all right so
we're going to build a scatter plot so
we'll just go up here go down to scatter
you can just choose the size we'll just
keep it simple like this
and then just we just need to copy our
data into the chart oops
just copy this just double click on the
chart
brings up this Excel like window here
it'll come back over to this one
and copy sales Ft
place that in here these two columns are
for if you wanted to separate these into
different groups so for example if you
wanted
um you know Northwest East East Central
North all to be in a certain group and a
certain color and if you wanted the rest
of it to be a different color that's
what you would use this column for and
then this would be if you wanted to
include an additional variable turn it
into a bubble chart but we're not going
to do either of those things because
we're going to keep it simple
delete those columns and here we go we
already have the data that we're looking
for
and you can see that there's a general
sort of positive correlation here so
when you're trying to build an effective
chart remember there's two things you
want to focus on making sure your
message comes through clearly and
removing the Clutter from your chart so
let's start with the message
so the first thing we're going to do is
just add a simple Title Here
that's going to give us our biggest
bang for the buck in terms of effort
let's move this chart down a little bit
all right so let's just put a simple
title in here
more sales
FTE
10 to lead to
higher sales for each region
probably a better title out there but
we'll just stick with this one it's
pretty simple but really the main focus
of this is to emphasize the message in
the chart
another thing we could do here
is we can add a trend line this is going
to help emphasize that this is a
positively correlated relationship
between these two variables
all right just to make sure we're
being comprehensive
let's include a little subtitle here
say
sales FTE
versus total sales
USD
the year here just to be comprehensive
a little smaller italicize
there we go
so now we have the basics of our chart
in place it's really just about removing
clutter and the good thing is with a
chart like this it's kind of already
decluttered so
we can't really remove the axes here I
think that would take away from the
effectiveness of this chart it being a
scatter plot
we could probably remove the labels but
they don't clutter the chart too much so
I think it's okay but one thing I do
want to do
is actually
change the color of the labels to
something a little less
standoutish
so the focus gets put on put on the dots
themselves
and changing the color of these is
really simple and easy
and actually I'm also going to
increase the size of these just a little
bit more there we go and with that we
have a pretty solid chart there's not a
whole lot of stuff here but it is a nice
looking chart that clearly communicates
the message without too much distraction
which is exactly what we want
if there's one thing I want you to take
away from this course it's this
effective data visualization is not
about learning every fancy chart type
yes those things have their place but
for most people the key to good data
visualization is learning the basics
really really well in applying them
before we go I did promise you a free
cheat sheet and this is going to help
you choose the right chart it summarizes
a lot of the stuff that we covered today
so could be a good handy resource for
you you can get that by going to the
analystacademy.com charts
thanks again for watching today's video
let me know down in the comments if you
have any questions about the content we
covered or if there's something in
particular you'd like to see covered in
a future video
