data visualization the term just sounds
complicated let's make it easier to
understand
[Applause]
[Music]
hello world mike plogger back with my
good pal and infographic genius visme
today we're talking data visualization
in today's day and age visuals are your
best friends when it comes to presenting
data spreadsheets powerpoints and
lengthy word documents are no more with
average attention spans seeming to
shorten by the day you must be able to
tell your story through data in a manner
that's easy for the consumer to
understand but how can you do that
hi
visby and i are here to help and in this
video we're going to answer all of your
questions regarding data visualization
what exactly they are how you can use
them different examples and more get out
your pen and paper and let's begin
shall we
let's start with what data visualization
is while the term sounds scary a data
visualization is meant to make
understanding information easier it's
just a graphical representation of data
rather than presenting data in a complex
spreadsheet you can create an image that
will illustrate the information in a
simpler way viewers don't have to scour
a fact sheet looking for the story they
can easily scan and quickly find what
they're looking for and you don't have
to be a data genius to create them
anyone and everyone can create them no
matter their profession marketers
teachers health care professionals
consider this infographic here your
profession is not an excuse to not
create data visualizations you can
create so much value for your audience
by spending just a little bit of extra
time building them
i just mentioned creating value for your
audience let's dive into four ways of
doing so
the first reason is how easy it makes
data to digest you can write a full
report if you'd like and hope that your
audience reads it all the way through to
understand your point or you can create
an infographic like this which is still
somewhat complex but simplifies the
information in an easy to understand
manner imagine if all of this was
written in paragraph form
yikes
the second reason is the ability to
discover patterns easier trends emerge
from data over time and if you monitor
that data through graphics they're much
easier to notice scatter plots or charts
can help you identify them and then once
you do present them with an infographic
similar to this one i haven't mentioned
this yet but all the examples you'll see
in this video are templates you can edit
in visme right now so keep them in mind
if you've been learning or gathering
information for a long period of time a
data visualization can help you compile
that information into one place it's
more engaging and an image is always
easier to remember than text alone
which is our fourth reason the visual
nature of a data visualization helps
viewers understand and remember it
better they'll soak in that image like a
sponge and will be able to recall the
information that went with it this is a
detailed infographic about
bioluminescence in australia the
geographical image makes it easier to
remember where it's present in where
it's not along australia's eastern coast
all right we have our feet wet in the
data visualization pond let's get a
little bit deeper now and explore five
ways data visualization can be used one
is to plan schedules are you familiar
with google calendar well that's become
a data visualization you can layout a
timeline or project plan for your days
or months whether through google or on
your own if you're on deadline a
visualization showing what needs to
happen before the big day is a great
idea i suggest starting at the end and
working backwards
another way data visualization is used
is to pinpoint relationships how are two
or more things related this is when a
scatter plot becomes your new best
friend
if time is one of the variables in your
data a graphic can help share changes
over that time period by recognizing the
trends from the past your data
visualization will help you predict what
outcomes to expect in the future
frequency falls in line with predictive
ability as well after you've compiled so
much data you'll have an idea of the
frequency you can expect something this
will require a lot of research but will
be helpful for both yourself and your
viewers
and our last way that data
visualizations are typically used is to
interpret value and risk rather than
sorting through pages of information a
simple data visualization can help you
assess a situation and determine if
taking action is necessary your brain
can process multiple variables much more
easily in an infographic than it can in
a page full of text
all right you've heard me touch on
various types of data visualizations
already to haunt any confusion and
answer any questions let's touch on some
of the most popular
start with graphs let me preface this by
saying there are dozens of graphs you
can choose from for the sake of this
video i'm only going to share a couple
of the most popular pie charts were our
best friend in third grade and well you
should reconnect after all these years
if you have seven or less percentage
points and their differences in value
are wide use a pie chart they're simple
and everyone understands them
bar charts are another good example for
easily understood data visualizations
they mostly speak for themselves and i'm
sure you've seen them before again if
you're thinking there's no way you can
create these visme has your back this is
a template right here that you can edit
to fit your data right now at visme.com
line charts take one fixed value and
however many variables and place them
adjacent to one another these are
perfect to discover trends or to see how
one variable may be superior or inferior
to another
three prominent charts that you can use
include pyramid charts stacked area
charts and radar charts pyramid charts
showcase visual hierarchy they can
illustrate income importance or the
difference between leads and actual
sales as we see here stacked area charts
are similar to your line charts they'll
visualize changes over different values
over time there's not one fixed variable
here and the last chart i want to put on
your radar is the radar chart you may
have also heard these by the name of
spyder or web charts but it looks
something like this they're great for
identifying if something is well-rounded
or maybe lacking in one specific area
against other competition
infographics rely on text a bit more
than a standard data visualization it's
still kept to a minimum but it might be
necessary depending on the type of
infographic one example is a timeline
infographic these will have some text
but you can follow along easier knowing
exactly when events were taking place by
actually seeing it along the timeline an
informational infographic will carry a
lot more text and may even feature
multiple data visualizations all in one
graphic you'll want icons colors and
charts but don't overload the graphic
and make it too overwhelming keep it
organized like we see with this visme
template
and while there's plenty more
infographics to check out which i
encourage you to do so for the sake of
time i just want to touch on comparison
infographics this is for side-by-side
comparisons of data helping you or your
audience make informed decisions they're
great for comparing cars homes or banks
as we see here
as we near the end of this video i want
to leave you with five tips for creating
the absolute best data visualization
that you can
first know your audience understand
their knowledge and if they'll be able
to comprehend a complex visual or if
you'll need to simplify it are you
talking to high schoolers or experienced
professionals or are you presenting a
spider chart to your hr department or
your communications team the hr
department will recognize it right away
because they have more experience with
it communications may not
that's another reason why you need to
choose the right data visualization as i
mentioned a pie chart would not be great
for data points that are very similar
that's when you'd want a bar chart a
stacked bar chart is good for comparing
maybe two to three variables but any
more than that and a comparison chart
becomes your friend
some quick design tips for you if you
follow our channel you've probably heard
me say these before but don't use more
than three fonts keep the sizing to
between 8 and 20 point fonts select
colors that are easy on the eyes and
complement each other well pro tip blue
and purple green and brown blue and gray
and green and gray are combos that color
blind people can't make out so consider
that
when reviewer reads a chart they may
need a legend to help them understand
what exactly they're looking at a legend
is what will tell them how to read the
chart at the very least they can show
what colors mean what like they do in
this chart always consider putting a
legend along your charts
and you know i couldn't end this video
without encouraging you to use visme for
your data visualization needs visme can
help you create animated charts and
graphs in just minutes again the
examples you've seen in this video were
taken straight from vismy's library you
don't have to design it from scratch you
can pick a template input your own data
and visumi will do the hard part for you
spend five minutes and go to visme.com
to see for yourself i promise you won't
regret it but first please like this
video and subscribe to our channel do i
have to say that maybe could it benefit
you in your search to create powerful
designs absolutely click through our
channel and check it out for yourself
thank you so much for watching and good
luck with visme i'm mike plogger helping
you make information beautiful
[Music]
you
