in this Microsoft Excel dashboards
course you'll learn how to transform raw
data into insightful interactive
visualizations this course will walk you
through designing Dynamic charts and
building professional dashboards that
enhance data storytelling with Hands-On
exercises you'll Master the tools and
techniques needed to create compelling
data visualizations in Excel and you'll
be equipped to present data in a way
that drives informed decision making me
here from Office Tech skill develop this
course struggling to find the perfect
chart to represent your data let's
unlock the secret of excel charts
together today I'll walk you through the
various chart types available in Excel
and how to use the right one for your
data hi I'm me Kar your ttor at offex
skill.com where we specialize in helping
professionals upgrade their Tech skills
to enhance productivity and efficiency
in the workplace let's discuss various
chart types that you can Implement
within Excel the topics we are going to
cover in this section include column
chart bar chart line chart P donut chart
XY scatter plot chart area chart radar
chart stock chart histogram chart paru
chart waterfall chart box and whisker
chart tree map chart map chart
recommended chart now let's discuss what
is a column chart column charts are
drawn with a rectangular bars of various
length representing different values
there are different types of column
charts such as cluster chart stack
column chart and 100% stack Colum colum
chart cluster column charts use colored
to differentiate the column whereas the
Stag column chart use varying thickness
or colors for each column column charts
are an effective means of displaying
data variation over a period or
comparing various elements typically the
categories are placed on one axis and
the value on another allowing for Clear
visualization of changes or updates with
each comparison point in the narrative
So currently we have a data set which
has sales by month for two products
which is product one and product two so
column chart is an excellent candidate
for this kind of data set we'll select
first the data set press CR a we'll go
to insert we'll go to recommended
charts we'll go to all charts we'll go
to column and then we can select a
cluster column
chart now we can add the chart and
access title so the chart title is
already there now we can add the access
title as well
expand the chart so we can add the chart
title
as
product 1
versus
Product 2
sales the Y AIS is
sales and xais is the
month now we can change the color of the
bars so for product one we can just
select the blue bar and now change the
color right Mouse click on the
bar and change this to
Red same thing with the orange bar right
Mouse click on it and change the color
to
gray your column chart is ready if you
want to change the chart type you can go
to the Chart design tab then select
change chart type so if you want to
change from cluster column to stack
column you can simply click on this and
press
okay or you can change it to some other
style that you
prefer now let's try to understand bar
chart bar chart is drawn with
rectangular bars of various lens
representing different values it is
often used to compare two or more
discreete values the size of the
rectangle relates to the magnitude of
the value it represents so the taller
indicates the greater value than shorter
ones there are different types of bar
chart such as cluster stacked 100%
stacked bar charts bar charts are use
color to differentiate the bars whereas
the stack bar charts use varying
thickness or colors for each bar now
let's go back to the Excel go to the bar
chart time over here we again have the
same data which is data for sales by
month for product one and product two
now we can use this data set to create a
bar chart so select the data click on
insert go to recommended charts go to
all charts click on
bar and then select cluster bar
chart go to the plus sign add the access
title and now you can change the name
from chart title to product
one versus
product to
sales the access title is going to be
month and the access title will be
sales now we can change the color of the
bar right Mouse click on the blue
bar go to fill and we can change that to
Gray and right click on the orange bar
select F and we can change that to
Red your cluster bar chart is ready now
if you want to change from cluster bar
to stack bar chart you can just go to
the Chart design go to change chart type
and then you can
select stack bar or you can select 100%
stack bar depending on whatever your
preferences press okay as you see now
the chart type is changed now let's try
to understand what is line chart line
chart is a type of chart that displays
information as a series of data point it
is also known as time series chart line
charts are a type of chart that
expresses information as a series of
data points line charts are good for
showing how something has changed or
comparing two different things there are
different types of line charts such as
line stacked 100% stacked line with
markers stacked line with markers and
100% stack line with markers chart now
let's go back to the Excel go to the
line chart time again we have the same
data by month product sales for product
one and product two now we will select
this data set and create a line chart go
to recommended charts go to all charts
go to line and we'll select line chart
press
okay and now we'll go to the plus sign
add the access
title we'll change the title for y
access to
sales and change the title
for xais to
month and we'll change the color of the
line first we'll add the chart title so
we'll make it product
one
versus product
two sales so we'll go to line one or
product one go to the product
two line right Mouse click and go to
outline and select gray color
color go to the blue
line right Mouse click go to the outline
Tab and select
red and now your line chart is ready
this is a simple line chart now let's
try to understand Pi donut chart Pi
donut chart are typically used to show
the proportional contribution of each
component to an overall chart the pie
chart is a variation of circle graph or
py graph also known as circle chart
where each slice is drawn as a circle
segment based on the angle swep out of
its radius to the center point pie
charts are used in finance and
statistical field certain types of
reports such as progress report graphic
displays with limited space for text
they are often thought be difficult to
read by humans because our eyes do not
naturally follow an arc still they can
be read more effectively if labeled with
their respective values let's go back to
the Excel go to the pie chart Tab and
now we'll insert a pie chart press
control okay go to insert select
recommended charts go to all charts go
to Pi click on the pie chart press okay
as you see the pie chart is created now
we can add data labels to understand
what is the revenue for each Pi now we
can also create a donut chart so you can
just copy this chart and paste right
next to
it go to chart design go to change chart
type type and you can select donut chart
press okay now let's try to understand
XY scatter plot chart the scatter plot
chart is a graph that shows an
association between two variables for
example when the graph is called an XY
chart you can see the relationship
between two variables on one graph when
one variable can be plotted on the x
axis the other one can be plotted on y-
axis the scatter blot can show whether
there is a correlation between two
variables it also shows how strong the
correlation might be making it easier
for readers to understand what they're
looking at so let's go to excel go to XY
chart and now we'll use the same data
set which is sales by month for product
one and product two press CR a go to
insert click on recommended charts go to
all charts go to XY scatter plot chart
and then select scatter with smooth
lines and markers press
okay insert the
title access title
provide the chart
name to product
one versus product to
sales title for y AIS title for xaxis
month your chart is ready now you can
experiment with other XY charts by
creating a duplicate
chart so we'll create a duplicate
chart we'll go to chart design change
chart type
and then you can select any chart you
want for XY we select this chart for
example and now you can compare between
two charts and see which one works best
for you now let's try to understand area
chart an area chart is created by
plotting the data on vertical I AIS and
the category on the horizontal x axis
the total area under each graph can be
calculated by adding up all the areas
under each rectangle stacked above each
other the height of each rectangle
corresponds to each relative value or
frequency about different rectangles or
bars stacked below it it is a graphical
depiction on the number of frequency of
observation in different categories
let's go to the spreadsheet go to the
area chart tab now we'll create a area
chart for this data set so select contr
a go to insert go to recommended charts
go to all charts go under area and then
select this chart press Okay click on
the plus sign and add the access title
provide the title name as product 1
versus Product 2
Saed the Y AIS will be
sales and the x-axis is going to be the
month now if you want to look at other
area charts you can just simply copy and
paste right next to it
now you can change the chart Style so
click on this chart go to chart design
go to change chart type and now you can
select any chart you want so if I want
to select stacked area chart press okay
now you can compare and see which one
suits you need now let's try to
understand radar chart radar chart
diagram can simultaneously visualize
three of more data sets it is typically
used to compare qualitative data but
also can be used for quantitative data
the radar chart may seem intimidating
but it is straightforward to use so this
chart is helpful when you have multiple
time series or different dimensions on
the same chart so let's go back to the
Excel go to the RAR chart time so now we
have the salves for three products per
month select all the data go to insert
go to recommended charts go to all
charts go to radar and click on okay now
you can add the title as product
comparison
sales you can expand the chart to make
it more visible you can create a
duplicate chart and select other radar
chart see a side by- side comparison of
which chart puts better so select the
duplicate chart go to chart design go to
change chart
type you can select this chart or you
can select radar with
markers press okay now let's try to
understand the stock chart stock chart
is a visual representation of historical
data it helps to quickly overview of
what has happened and identify patterns
and Trends stock chart are handy for
investors who want to know how their
assets perform they can help them make
better financial decisions and react
quickly when the market shifts when to
use a stock chart in Excel there are
various reasons to utilize a stock chart
in Excel such as tracking the
performance of investment the stock
market identifying trend lines and
determine support and resistance level
using the stock chart can Aid in making
informed decisions now let's go to the
Exel go to the stock chart T now we have
a data of a particular stock CH price
point and the market was open the
highest value of the day the lowest
value of the day closing value of the
day and the adjusted closing value of
the day also we have the volume and we
have the data by dates now we want to
create a stock chart which has a value
of high low and close and we want to see
it by date so we'll select these four
columns
so it's going to be date high low and
close so now go to recommended
charts go to all charts go to
Stock press
okay you can change the chart title to
high low
close you can
include the access title
so this is going to be price on the y
axis and on the x-axis is going to be
the
date you can change the chart Style by
clicking on the chart go to chart
design and you can select style two as
an
option you can add a line for high and
low to see how the trend changes over
day so click on the top part of the line
and then go to line then you can select
a solid line we can change the color to
gray go to the bottom part select the
bottom part which is now you want to add
a line for
low select solid line and then select
yellow as you see now it has a gray line
for high and yellow line for low and the
circle represents the closing price of
the stock now let's try to understand
the histogram chart the histogram chart
is a graphical representation of the
breakdowns of the data set into
different categories a histogram chart
is a graph that displays the frequency
distribution of data typically split
into categories so for example it can
show how different sets are distributed
in frequency let's go back to Exel go to
the histogram chart tag we have the data
by customer and by profit so now we can
use a histogram in order to put the
profit into different buckets because
it's a range so it can put into
different buckets we can group the
customer into that bucket so select the
data set go to insert go to recommended
charts go to all charts go to histogram
and press
okay as you see Excel has automatically
create the grouping we can add the chart
title as
customer
profit
range you can also add the data labels
click on the chart go to plus sign and
then add data
labels So currently now the range is not
visible so you can just expand the
chart so you can see the highest and the
lowest value
currently there are six bins now you can
customize the bins you can select the
lowest and the highest value based on
your need so if you click on the values
on the x-axis you have the
option to select the bin so there are
six categories broken into 280,000 so
you can change this to
300,000 and then press okay
it has changed the range from 0 to
300,000 you can provide the bin width or
also you can provide the number of bins
and it will calculate and select the
range
so press
enter and now you see there are five
bins instead of
six so you can customize based on your
need let's try to understand what is a
parto chart parto chart is a graphical
representation of the ad20 principle it
plots a cumulative percentage of events
or outcomes found on vertical axis and
the frequency or rate of these events on
a horizontal axis a bar chart is a great
way to understand what matters most in a
given category it is easy to understand
chart that people can use to identify
and prioritize their efforts or decide
what they want to focus on to achieve
better results it helps to determine
where to put most of your time and
resources by looking at the top
priorities we have data by region with
total
transaction so now we'll use Paro chart
to understand which region has the
highest transaction so select the data
go to insert go to recommended charts go
to all charts go to
histogram and then select Paro chart
click okay you can expand the chart and
provide the chart name as transaction
count by region
as you see Europe has the highest
transaction so this will tell a user
that they need to place more emphasis on
Europe and subaran Africa since they
both have the highest transactions now
let's try to understand what is
waterfall chart waterfall chart is a
type of chart that shows how various
levels of one or more variables stack up
against each other it is also known as
hierarchical barcraft because it depicts
the data in water form or hierarchical
form shareholding companies typically
use waterfall charts to Direct Cash Flow
during a financial year the chart is
divided into months with each waterfall
chart showing the available funds for
that month now let's go to Excel and
implement this chart go to the waterfall
chart tab the data set shows the date
and the daily profit so now I'll use
waterfall chart to understand this data
so select the data go to insert go to
recommended charts go to Waterfall click
okay the chart is created now we can
change the chart title to daily profit
so click on the legend for
increase go to the color icon and change
from solid go to solid and now change it
to Green click on the decrease Legend go
to the coloron go to solid fill and
change it to Red the bars are more
visible and you can see where the profit
has increased or decreased based on the
date let's try to understand box and
whisker chart box and whisker chart
represents the data distribution the
vertical line above and below boxes
represents the maximum and the minimum
value the box shows the value between
the 25th through 75th percent and the
horizontal line represents the 50th
percent and now we will create a box and
whisker chart based on this data set so
click on insert go to recommended charts
go to all charts select box and whiskers
click okay and now you see the chart is
created we can add the title as
transaction by
region and we can also add the access
title select the plus sign take a mark
on the access title the y- axis will be
called
transaction the x-axis will be called
region we can change the color of the
bars make it yellow so it's more visible
we can also select more data label
options go to the number drop-down and
go to General and select number you can
reduce the decimal to zero and as you
see the decimals are removed the minimum
value maximum value the median the 25th
percentile and the 75th percentile and
also the 50th percentile I can expand
the chart to make the data more visible
and the data
labels as you see now after expanding
the chart the data looks more visible
the line on the bottom shows the minimum
value the line on the top shows the
maximum value 57 is the 25th percent X
is the average 78 is the median 508th
percental and 90 is the 75th percenti
let's try to understand the tree map
chart a tree map chart is a way to
visualize the hierarchy for example it
is often used to display the proportion
of different values in a data set prap
can be dra drawn as squares or
rectangles and nested within one another
to provide greater detail I.E more
extensive and smaller rectangles can be
drawn inside one another so when to use
a tree map chart tree map provides a
quick and easy way to summarize large
amounts of hierarchical data when
plotting nodes the dimensions are
configured based on numerical values
assigned per node this makes identifying
Trends between all categories much more
straightforward in comparing one type
with another or even among different
groups within the same Leaf Branch
hierarchic now let's go to the Excel
file over here we have three columns
this is essentially a hierarchical data
the first level is the region the second
level is the country and we want to find
out the revenue for each country so
select all the data click on insert go
to recommended charts go to all charts
go to tree map click on the Dre map
press okay the dream map chart is
created you can expand the chart
now we can add the title sales by
country and we can move the legend to
bottom now the chart is more visible the
data is broken by region so the yellow
one is Europe the navy blue is
subsaharan Africa the light blue is
Middle East and North Africa the gray is
Central America and Caribbean and then
the boxes are divided based on the value
of the sales so in Europe Serbia has the
highest sales in subs and Africa Benin
has the highest sales in Middle East and
North Africa Libya has the highest sales
so anyone looking at this three map
chart can easily figure it out which
region and which country has the highest
sales let's understand map chart map
charts are a visual representation of
data in a geographical context they help
display data comparison between the
region and distribution points across
the globe map sh provides visual
representation of data on geographic
regions that are challenging to
understand what
formats maap charts can show anything
from demographics comparative statistics
or any other data type that would be
difficult to see in a table form map
charts are also accessible for USS to
read and understand because they give
clear and concise information and now
select the data we have the same data
from the tree map chart which is region
country and revenue select all the data
go to
insert go to recommended charts go to
all
charts select map and now press okay and
now you can see the revenue by country
let me expand the charts the country
with the darkest color has the highest
sale and the country with the lightest
color has the lowest sales so now we can
change the title to sales by
country and we'll change the color go to
the brush sign and then select color and
then you can select this color palette
you can also add the data labels that
would provide you with the values now
let's try to understand recommended
charts the recommended charts feature in
Exel is a function that allows user to
automatically generate additional types
of chart that are not available in the
ribbon three things can cause a chart to
be generated user selected data data
from external Source Dynamic data
meaning there's no need for user
intervention this feature generates and
displays a list of recommended sharts
and graph based on your data selection
the list is displayed under insert
recommended charts so now let's go to
the Excel file and now select the data
again go to insert go to recommended
charts and over here you get a list of
recommended chart that Excel provides
you and you can select any one of these
charts based on your requirement so
there you have it a comprehensive
tutorial on mastering Excel chart types
now I'm going to show you how to
customize your Excel chart to make them
look professional and impactful you can
download the file from the description
the topics we are going to cover in this
video we'll start start with organizing
your data next we'll select the best
chart type then we'll apply chart Styles
and template then we can adjust the
chart elements and the labels we can use
data labels and grid lines to enhance
your chart we'll apply Color themes and
pallets we'll discuss how you can
utilize combination chart and secondary
AIS we'll show where you can incorporate
trend lines we'll discuss different
chart elements that you can apply and
finally we'll go through some best
practices for chart customization so
before diving into customization it's
essential to understand that you need to
organize your data so go back to excel
first we want to ensure your data is
organized in a tabular format you have
the column headers on the top and there
are no blank rows or columns in your
data set to make your data easier to
reference when creating and updating
charts you can put this data into a uh
name range so we'll just select this
data from A1 through C13 we go to the
formula time and then click on Define
name
range and in our case the range is
already created so if I select edit you
can provide a name change so you can
name it as like sales data and click
okay so anytime now you want to refer to
the data you can just use this the name
which is sales data now we want to
choose the best chart type for this data
so go to insert in our case we'll select
a column chart because this stereotype
is better suited to show in a column
chart so I'll just select a cluster
column chart because we want to compare
two different products side by side now
we want to apply some chart Styles and
also we can discuss some templates that
you can use so if you click on the chart
you can go to the Chart design Tab and
over here you have options to select any
of the chart Style I'll just keep it
default next we'll adjust some chart
elements and labels so if you click on
this plus sign you can click on access
title you can change the legend on the
top make it on the top you can remove
the grid lines and now we can also
change the name of the chart so we'll
make it as monthly sales product one
versus product two this is called
revenue and this is called
month now you can enhance the chart look
by adding the data labels or data tables
in Grid lines so if I click on the chart
again if I click on data labels you'll
see the data or you'll see the value for
each and every bar but then you'll have
to expand the chart or you can use data
table in of labels you can select data
table and this will show all the values
on the bottom so it's more organized and
clean you can also add a grid line so
you know exactly it becomes easier to
analyze you can apply Color theme and
palletes so Excel has already lot of
pre-built colors and palletes that you
can utilize so if you click on the plus
sign or click on the brush icon you can
select go to color and then you can
select any of the color palettes that
you like you can also go to chart design
and select it from there and you can
select from here as well it's one the
same thing just different ways of
accessing let's say if I don't like the
color that's being displayed play or
shown in the color palette you can also
manually change it by clicking on the
bar and this will select all the bars
and then you can go to home and then you
can just simply choose the color of your
choice so I'll select black and I'll
select the other one as orange or make
it
gray we can also Implement some Advanced
Techniques we can use combination charts
and secondary axis to look at the same
data in a different way so you can click
on this chart go to change chart or go
to chart design select change chart type
you can make this combo and over here
you can select that you want the product
one to be a column and product two be as
shown as line so this is how your data
would show so click okay and as you see
you can add secondary access your
secondary access is showing here which
is product two now you can change the
color by simply clicking on the bar and
you can also change the color of the
line you can go to format go to shape
outline and then select any color of
your choice you can also incorporate
prend line if you want to see how the
data is trending over particular period
of time so let's say if you want to find
out what's the trend for product one you
can just simply click on the plus sign
click on the trend line and this will
give you the option if you want to see
the trend line for product one or
product two so I'll select product one
and as you see the trend line is
slightly increasing it's more or less
the same if you want to change some
formatting of the trend line you can
right Mouse click on the trend line and
click on format trend line and you will
see this diog box will open up currently
it's showing linear trend line you can
change it to exponential logarithmic
polinomial power so depending on your
choice I'll stick to linear
you can apply additional chart elements
or you can customize the chart Elements
by just simply clicking on the chart go
to chart design and then go to the drop
down of the chart elements and over here
you have more options based on any
changes you want to make to ensure your
customized charts are effective and
professional you can follow some of
these best practices for customization
first you want to prioritize Clarity and
simplicity by removing unnecessary chart
elements such as redundant label and you
want to focus on the key message that
you want to convey next you to use clear
and concise style for your chart and
also for your access so the person who's
looking at your chart can easily
understand the context of your data next
you want to choose the appropriate chart
type and data ranges that accurately
represents your data and insight
avoiding distorting or misrepresenting
data by using misleading chart types or
scale can send the wrong message to the
person who's looking at your chart
consider your target audience andent
tailor your chart design and formatting
use colors fonts styles that are easy to
read and but now I'm going to show you
how to create an engaging and effective
Excel dashboard a crucial skill for any
data driven professional so you will be
building this dashboard as you see in
the screen this is a very fastpaced
video where I won't go into the nuts and
bolts of each and every detail I just
going to show you how to build this
dashboard from scratch you can download
the file from the description the topics
we are going to cover in this video
we'll start off with understanding
interactive Excel dashboard then we'll
plan free Excel dashboard then we'll
collect and prepare your data we create
a pivot table for data analysis we
visualize the data through charts and
graphs we increase the interactivity
with Excel features and will finally
assemble all the components into a
dashboard interactive dashboards in
Excel are a type of dashboard that
allows you to track and measure key
performance indicators and metrics they
provide visual representation of complex
data making it easier to understand and
analyze with interactive dashboards you
can change data inputs filter data drill
down into specific details to gain
insight and make data driven decisions
next we need to plan your Excel
dashboard before creating an Excel
dashboard it's essential to understand
the needs and expectation of your target
audience consider who will be using the
dashboard and what information they need
to make informed decisions clearly
Define the objectives of your dashboard
and ensure they align with your
organization's goal for this tutorial we
create a revenue dashboard with a small
e-commerce business focusing on key
metrics like Revenue order customer
acquisition the target audience with
this dashboard will be sales and
marketing team who will use the insight
to optimize the product performance
customer acquisition strategy and
overall business growth in this tutorial
you will use a zip file that contains
data related to yearly sales Data
customer item type location order
priority and sales Channel you will see
all this data in a zip folder now let us
clean and organize the data so open a
blank Excel workbook go to
data click on get
data click on from file click on Excel
workbook click on the zip folder where
you've extracted the data and then
select 2014 sales
data I'll select the 2014 sales data
click on import and you will see a
dialog box click on sheet one click on
transform data and now your power query
dialog box will open
our power query editor will open now
we'll just rename this to 2014 sales
data so right M click click on rename
and we'll rename this to 2014 sales
data click on close and load
to and then select only create
connection now we'll repeat the same
process for each Excel file so go to get
data from file from Excel workbook
click on 2015 sales data click on
import now the dialog box will show up
click on sheet one click on transform
data this will load the data into
parquer editor and now we'll rename this
as
2015 sales
data again select close and load
to only create connection click okay now
go to get data from file from Excel
workbook now 2016 import click on sheet
one transfering data now the data will
load into Power query editor rename this
file 2016 sales
data select close and load
to select only create
connection from file from Excel workbook
2017 series data import take on sheet
one transform data rename this to 2017
series
data select close and load
to only create connection click
okay click on get data from file from
Excel
workbook 2018 sve data click on
import click on sheet one transform data
rename this two 2018 sales
data select close and load
to only create connection click
okay click on get data from files from
Excel
workbook from 20189 saves data click
import click on sheet one transform data
rename this 2019 sales data
select close and load
to click only create
connection get data from Excel workbook
click on 2020 sales data import click on
sheet
one select transform data rename this to
2020 sales data
click on close and load
to click on only create
connection again get data from file
Excel
workbook now click on 2021 sales data
import click on sheet one transform data
rename this make it 2021 sales data
click on close and load
to now all your sales data are loaded
for each and every year now we'll do the
same thing for other Excel files so go
to get data from file from Excel
workbook click on customer click on
sheet one click on transform data and
we'll call this as dim
customer dim is dimension I'll explain
the concept of dim and fact once we
import the data into the power query so
now let us go back to data click on get
data from file from Excel workbook let
us import item type click import click
on sheet one transform data rename this
to dim item type select close and load
to select only create connection click
okay click on get data from file from
Excel
workbook click on location import click
on sheet one click on transform data
rename this to demm
location click on close and load
to select only create connection click
okay go to get data from Excel bookbook
Select Auto priority click import click
on sheet one click on transform
data rename this to dim order
priority select closeing load
to click on only create connection
Okay click on get data from file Excel
workbook and select sales Channel
import rename this to
dim or click on sheet one click on
transform data
rename this to
dim sales
Channel click on close and load
to select only create connection click
okay now let us append all this data
into a single power query where we'll
combine the data from 2014 all the way
to 2021 go to get data go to launch par
qu editor so click on 2014 sales data
query click on openend query click on
open query is
new and now we'll select all the queries
so go to three or more tables and will
select 2015 through 2021 click on ADD
click okay now this has appended all the
data from all these queries into a
single query so we'll rename this call
it fact sales transaction now now we
want to filter out certain columns so
we'll go to choose
columns click on choose columns let us
remove all the duplicates so just select
all the data by pressing CR a right
Mouse click and click on remove
duplicates now we can load all this data
into a tra
model so right Mouse click on dim
customer click on load to and then
select add this to the data model click
okay and now the data is loaded do the
same thing for irm type load to add this
to the data model click okay same thing
over here same thing for order priority
as
well click on load to add this to the
data model click
okay same thing over
here and also you want to load this the
F fact sales transaction into the data
model so click on load to add this to
the T model now we'll create a p table
for data analysis pivot tables are a
powerful tool for data analysis in Excel
that allows you to summarize reports and
analyze large amounts of data this
enables you to organize manipulate
visualize your data in a pivot table
format so now first you build the data
model and write Dax and then we'll build
a pivot T so let us go back to excel
first you want to make sure that your
power pivot tab is enable so you can do
that by simply clicking on file
options click on
addins and then select Comm addins from
the drop down click on go and you will
see the power PIV option if it's unable
or disable so you can just enable it and
click okay and then you should see it on
the ribbon on the top so now we'll first
create relationships between these
tables so you can go to the diagram View
and over here you will see all the
tables that we loaded from Power query
to the data model so we'll keep the F
table in the
mirror and all the other tables right
next to each other
or surrounding the fact
table so now we'll build relationships
between the fact table and the dimension
table whereas in fact table it stores
the measurement metrix or facts related
to the business operation so for example
over here we see the details related to
sales transaction such as unit sold unit
price unit cost total revenue total cost
total profit star schema which is what
we call this a star schema where the
fact table is in the middle and all the
dimensions are surrounding the fact
table and the dimension table contains
the description of the objects that are
there in the fact table it provides
information about Dimensions such as
value characteristics keys for example
if we connect the customer ID from the
fact table to the dimension table now it
has created a relationship when I drag
this if I want to pull any information
about a particular customer I can look
at their ID on the fact table and then I
can find out their email address their
job title and the first name and last
name so this ID customer ID is the
bridge between the fact table and the
dimension table so for example if I want
to find out like how many people with
this job title purchased a particular
product so this is where the customer ID
will help to identify help to connect I
can simply do a count of customer ID and
in the pivot table which will give me
the breakdown of count by each job title
and this is where customer ID will
Bridge the connection the customer ID is
the primary key which is unique to each
record so you will not find a same
customer ID twice in the dim customer
table each row will be unique now let us
create the relationship between all
these tables so I'll drag the item type
with the item type ID in the dimension
type table do the same for location ID
I'll do the same for order priority and
do the same for sales Channel
ID now this is what we called a star
schema because it looks in shape of a
star where the fact table is in the
middle and the dimension tables are
surrounding it so the fact table in the
middle helps us to measure different
kpis and help us visualize different
charts and the dimension table helps us
to look at the data from different
angles so for example if I want to look
at what are the different order
priorities so I want a count of
different order priorities so I can use
the order priority column in the dim
order priority table and then I can get
a count of the transaction ID so this
will break down the total number of
order priority by different account of
total aut priorities by different order
priority category and the same thing
with region so if I want to find out
what is the total revenue across
different countries I can use the
location ID to find out exactly to get a
sum of the total revenue across
different countries as we move on to the
next section of uh writing Dax and doing
pivot table you will understand the
concept of how these tables are linked
together and how it helps in terms of
generating a pivot table go to the data
View and go to fa sales transaction and
over here we want to get the total
revenue so we'll write the Dax code this
is the place where you can write the Dax
code so click anywhere in any of the
cell and over here we'll type in
Revenue colon and we'll type in a
sum and type in total revenue you need a
equal to after the colon click on the
tick mark and as you see the calculation
has generated a total revenue so we can
format this we can add the dollar sign
and we can remove the decimal so this
was one of the kpis now we'll write the
code for the next kpi which is number of
orders so we'll write over here I'll
call this as number of
orders colon equal
to and the formula for
this is Count transaction ID
so Dax will automatically create
intellisense which will give you a
suggestions of all the field that you
can choose
from click on the ti
Mark and if you expand this you will see
the
value I'll just provide th000 separator
and remove the decimal and now I'll add
the third formula which is average
revenue per order so I'll type in
average revenue or order and the formula
for that is going to be divide Revenue
so it's
this Dax formula divided by this so
that's how we'll get the average order
order average revenue per order so
revenue and then we'll get the number of
orders close the bracket click on the
tick mark and as you see the value is
generated now let us assign a dollar
sign remove the decimal now we'll
generate the pivot table directly from
the data model or from the power pivot
editor the good thing about writing the
DX code is you don't need to format
every time in the pivot table in the
values SE and the good thing is you can
use this measure anywhere in the pivot
table once we have created the
relationship in the diagram view you can
use this measure across different tables
now let us go through the steps of
creating the pivot table so go to pivot
table and then select pivot
table and this will give you the option
to select new or existing worksheet I'll
select existing worksheet in the range
for this is going to be cell A1 click on
Okay click
okay and now we will create three
different kpis or pivot table for all
the kpis so if you open fact sales
transaction just drag all the kpis into
the values now for our e-commerce sales
dashboard let us create pivot table
summarizing Revenue by sales channel so
again go back to the data model or click
on
manage click on pivot table
again pivot table click on existing
worksheet go to cell E1 click okay click
okay and you will see the dim sales
channel so put this in the row and then
you can add the revenue and the values
so as you see these are two different
tables we are getting sales channel from
the dim sales Channel table and we are
getting the revenue which is stored in
the fact sales transaction table and as
you see it has created the pivot table
the reason is because we have created
the relationship if you go to manage and
as you see there's a relationship
between the chml ID and the dimension
table and the sales Channel ID in the
fact table which is here and that's what
I was talking to you about once you
create the relationship you can use you
can mix and match data from different
tables in a single pivot table and as
you will see you will use this Revenue
measure across other pivot tables as
well so you can reuse this measure again
and again so now click on pivot table
again now I'll create our third table
which is the revenue by item type so
click on existing worksheet put this in
cell
A4 click okay click okay and click on
dim item type in the rows and revenue in
the values again as you see we have
using two different fields from two
different tables that's because of the
relationship that we've created and also
the measure has been reused in this
table in this pivot table and also in
this pivot table so that's the be about
power pivot where you can create
relationships very you can write D where
you can reuse this measures again and
again so let us go back to
manage again go to pivot table pivot
table click on existing
workchain go to sell each one click on
Okay click okay and now we need the
revenue by order priority so click on
order priority drag order priority in
rows and we'll get the revenue
in the values field so now let us change
the labels so over here we'll make this
as sales chano we'll remove the grand
too so go to
design and off for rows and columns
again we'll make this as order
priority and remove the grand too again
we'll do the same for item
type and remove the grand too design
off for rows and columns next is we want
to visualize the data using charts and
graphs visualization is the key
important component for creating an
interactive Excel dashboard charts and
graph provide a visual representation of
the data making it easier to understand
and to analyze Trends patterns and
relationship selecting the appropriate
chart type is crucial for effective
communication communicating your data
Insight different chart types are suited
for different purpose and data
structures some common chart types and
their uses include a column and a bar
chart which Compares values across
categories or shows Trends over time
line chart displays continuous data or
show changes over time P chart shows the
composition of proportion of the whole
the scatter plot chart visualizes
relationship between two variables and
the area chart demonstrates the
magnitude of change over time or across
categories for our e-commerce sales
dashboard will create a pie chart
showing Revenue by sales this will help
us to identify click on the which is
sales Channel
click on
insert click on pivit
chart and click on buy click
okay and this will generate your buy
chart now let us create another chart
for our sales dashboard now we want to
create a column chart to show the
revenue by order priority this will help
us to identify which order priority is
performing better so click on the order
priority click on insert click on P
charts and then select the cluster
column click okay and your cluster
column chart is ready and next chart we
need is the bar chart showing the
revenue of item type this will help us
to identify which item type is
performing better so click on the pivot
table click on insert click on pivot
chart click on pivot chart again click
on bar click on
okay now we want to customize the chart
elements for Maximum Impact first We'll
add the descriptive titles and access
label next we'll adjust the chart colors
and style then we'll add data labels
then we'll customize the chart layout in
the background so click on the pivot
table first we will hide all the field
buttons and then we'll click on the plus
sign we'll make sure all these are
enable we'll rename the chart
title to sales Channel
distribution and insert of the revenue
we want this to be a percentage we'll
click on the label options and insert of
value we select the percentage same
thing for this one instead of value
we'll select this as percentage and in
the number we'll select this as
percentage and there will be two decimal
and now we'll also change the color so
for online we'll select this as
yellow so click on the
legend click on
home and then click on more
colors click on custom colors
and the hex code we want to apply is F0
A500 click okay and now this will change
it to yellow and we want this one as
black so we'll change this
to more colors click on
custom and this will be called 1
191919 Click
okay and we'll also change the color of
the text of this one to White and your
pie chart is ready and now let us
customize the column chart so click on
the column
chart click on the plus sign and we'll
add the access
title we'll remove the Legends we'll
hide all the field
buttons and we'll change the name of
the chart title we'll call this as
Revenue
by order
priority this will be called order
priority and this will be
called
revenue and we'll change the color of
the bar to
Black to select the
column click on the color that you
selected
before and now we'll make changes to the
bar chart so we'll remove all the field
buttons click on the plus sign We'll add
the access title we'll remove the
legend and we'll rename this
to
revenue by item
type and this will be called item
type and this will be
Revenue we'll also add
change the color so click on the bars
click on
home and we'll select the yellow
color we'll also add the data labels so
click on plus sign add data labels and
we'll do the same for the column chart
add data
labels so we need to create three kpis
one for Revenue total orders and average
dollar per order so we'll use the pivot
table to build the kpis so we already
have the kpi values now we just need to
insert a rectangle so go to
insert click on illustration click on
shapes and then select the
shape We'll add the shape
here so we'll copy this three times or
two times we need three shapes in
total so we'll change the color for each
so one will be gray so go to shape
format go to shape
fill go to more fill colors go to
custom now the hex code we want is
BF
bf b a click
okay this will turn into gray color now
what now we want this one to be the
black so this should be in your recent
colors and we want this one to be yellow
this should also be in your recent
colors the yellow one so now we'll
insert the value so click on the formula
bar so the first value we want is the
revenue so we'll provide the cell
reference in the formula bar which is A2
press
enter so you want to make this Center
align make this bold
we'll do the same for this one click on
the formula bar equal
to and we want this to
be the number of orders which is going
to be cell
B2 press
enter the text for this one should be
white color so change the text
color make this Center aligned
do the same for this
one click on the formula bar equal
to and click on average revenue per
order
enter make this Center
aligned make this
bold you should make this one also as
bold and now we need to insert the box
which will be the name of the kpi so go
to insert so we'll insert a text box
click on text and then click on
box call this as
Revenue make this
bold in Center
Line so copy paste this twice
this will be called total
orders and this will be called average
dollar
per order now we need to group these
two do the same for this this one as
well group these two
shapes also we'll do the same for this
one
the reason we grouping is now because
once you move this shape both the shapes
will move together so now your kPa is
ready in this section we will explore
how to enhance interactivity in your
Excel dashboards using features such as
slicers and timeline these features
allows you to interact with the
dashboard filter data explore different
aspects of the data so slicers and
timelines are powerful Excel features
that allow you to user to interact with
and filter pivot table data quickly and
into tively they provide a way to visual
way to select and deselect data points
instantly updating the connected charts
and table sers are used to filter
categorical data such as product
category or customer segments while as
the timeline helps us to filter the
continuous data range allowing user to
focus on specific time periods there are
few benefits of using the slicer and
timelines first one it improves the user
experience slicers and timelines provide
intive and a visual way to the user to
interact with data making it easier to
explore and analyze information it also
increases data flexibility users can
quickly filter data to focus on specific
subset by uncovering Insight that might
be hidden in aggregate data connected
charts and tables automatically update
when the slices or timeline is selected
providing realtime insights also it
enhances the visual appeal a
well-designed slicer and timeline adds a
professional polish look to your
dashboard now let us create the
stepbystep slicers and timelines so go
back to Excel and we'll click on the
pivot table item type click on
insert click on
timeline click on auto
date and now this will give you a
timeline
slicer so we'll change the color
from this to
gray since we don't have the gray option
we create a custom style so we'll right
Mouse click on this
and make this as duplicate so now we can
create our own template so we'll call
this as
gray
timeline we'll select selected time log
format this select more colors custom
make this
as BF BF BF click
okay click okay and we'll select
unselected time lock
we don't need to change anything here
then we'll select selected time lock
we'll change this to more
colors we make this as B BF BF BF click
okay and now we'll select this slicer or
this
timeline as you see it just changed the
color to gray now we need to add another
slicer for Country so just select this
pivot table go to design or go to pivot
table analyze click on insert
slicer and then we'll select under dim
location we'll select the country click
okay and we'll change the color this to
gray which is this
one and now we need to connect all the
tables to these slicers and timeline so
we'll click on uh slicer click on report
connection and you you want to select
all the pivot tables so if you filter or
if you select any of the country it will
filter the data for each and every PIV
table and also it will reflect on the
chart as well so click okay we'll do the
same thing for the timeline slicer so go
to timeline click on report connection
expand this and select all the B
tables click all of them and then click
okay now if you select any particular
year or month you you'll see the numbers
will change and the chart will also
reflect that change now all the
components of the dashboard are ready
now we just need to assemble it now that
you have created the pivot tables Spirit
charts and added interactivity with
places and timelines it's time to
assemble all the components into a
cohesive Excel dashboard an effective
dashboard layout should be intutive
visually appearing and optimized for the
users needs when assembling your
dashboard components consider the
following design principles you want to
prioritize the information hierarchy
place the most important Insight in the
kpi in the prominent location use size
colors and position to guide the users
attention to key elements next you want
to maintain visual consistency using a
consistent color scheme font family and
sizing throughout the dashboard align
elements to create a clean and organized
look you want to maximize the white
space you want to avoid overcrowding
your dashboard with too much information
for our e-commerce dashboard will'll
arrange the component as follows we'll
copy paste all the chart slicers and
kpis into a new tab and organize all the
visuals as shown below and insert a text
box with the text called Revenue
dashboard so we'll call this tab as
pit and we'll create another tab called
dashboard and now we'll copy paste all
the charts
kpis
slicers timeline
slicer copy and just paste it here and
now we'll reorganize this tab so first
we'll place all the KPS on the top so
we'll place this over
here and we'll place the third KP over
here we'll put
the country slicer over here
we'll expand
this we'll put the P chart place it
here we'll place the column chart over
here right next to the P right next to
the pie chart
and we'll place the timeline slicer on
the
bottom and we'll add
the bar chart on the bottom we'll
minimize
this and we can expand this
now all the elements of the dashboard
look organized now we just need to add
the text box so go to insert click on
text click on text
box we'll just add it on the
top and we'll call this
as Revenue
dashboard put Center aligned we'll make
this as
bold and now we just need to change the
reference for this from cell A2 to we
need to reference this back to the pivot
table which is in pivot chart or in PIV
tab so we'll call we'll reference this
Insel A2 press
enter same thing for this one
we'll make sure this is
bold and again reference this from C2 to
Pivot Dam
C2 referencer to PIV C2 press enter and
make this
bold and now if you filter you should
see these values also change previously
it was referencing to this sheet all the
cells that's why when you click on any
one of the countries the data would not
filter because we had the incorrect
reference now we'll go to the view Tab
and remove the grid lines formula bars
and
headings now your dashboard is ready
like select any particular country or
select for any particular years or
months so if I select let's say 2014
this will filter the data for that
particular country and that particular
year or you can just select here all for
which you will see the data for all the
countries and all the years so there you
have it your tutorial on creating
Dynamic Excel dashboard and before you
go I have a special offer for you if you
found this tutorial helpful and want to
dive deeper into mastering Excel check
out my free Excel course the link is in
the description below don't forget to
like share and subscribe for more tips
and tutorials and drop in the comments
below if this video was helpful to you
so I can create more videos like these
