Predictive Analytics if you think it
sounds complicated that's mainly because
it is in most cases building predictive
models involve some fairly complex
calculations and require special tools
so you might also think that those tools
tend to be the realm of the data
scientist putting Predictive Analytics
out of the reach of the average business
due to a lack of said data scientist or
because it was beyond their budget well
that might have been the case a few
years AO go but not so much anymore with
the Advent of artificial intelligence
and machine learning becoming available
to all there are now some much more
accessible Solutions one of those being
pcan in this video we'll take a look at
what pcan offers in terms of Predictive
Analytics using generative artificial
intelligence or gen AI let's jump
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
in hello and welcome to learn bi online
with me Adam finer helping you do more
with data Predictive Analytics isn't
something I've really covered on this
channel so when pan approached me asking
if I'd like to check out their tool I
took it for a spin and decided it was
something that you guys might be
interested in too full disclosure pcan
are very kindly sponsoring today's video
I'm going to be demoing their platform
for you but they haven't told me what to
say so it's completely my review if you
want to check them out for yourself
there's a link in the description below
if at this point you're asking yourself
what is Predictive Analytics it's
essentially using data statistical
algorithms and machine learning to
predict future Behavior Trends and
outcomes so this being a business
intelligence Channel what are the kinds
of predictions that businesses want to
make well there are a few very common
use cases things like Revenue prediction
or churn which is predicting how many
existing customers might stop using a
product or service in the future churn
rate is the use case we're going to look
at now using pan so let's jump onto my
computer here on Pan's website it says
reimagine machine learning with Pan's
predictive gen AI or generative
artificial intelligence level up your
skills and impact with machine learning
start your AI Journey today it also says
zero data engineering no data scientists
needed and coding optional which sounds
great you can sign up here for a 14-day
free trial and when you do and you log
in you'll be greeted by Pan's AI
assistant who says I'll assist you in
formulating a predictive question I'll
then create a SQL notebook to build a
training set so what would you like to
predict well in our case I want to
predict customer churn so I'll send
that and the reply comes back great I'd
be happy to help you solve your customer
churn predictive use case for example a
predictive question could be predict
weekly which customers will stop making
purchases in the next 7 days this is
just an example and we can refine it to
better suit your needs in order for me
to help you phrase your own predictive
question all you need to do is to answer
four simple questions ready to get
started let's start with the first
question who or what is the subject of
your prediction in this case is it safe
to assume that the subject is your
customers well that is correct so I'll
send yes
great so we're predicting something
about your customers now let's move on
to the second question what is the
specific activity or event that you are
trying to predict about your customers
in the context of customer churn this
could be something like customers will
stop making purchases or customers will
cancel their subscription could you
please specify the activity you're
interested in predicting well it's stop
making purchases that's what we're
interested in so we'll send that perfect
so we're predicting whether your
customers will stop making purchases now
on to the third question how far into
the future do you want to predict this
activity for example do you want to
predict if a customer will stop making
purchases in the next 7 Days 14 days or
perhaps a month please specify the time
frame well for us we want a
month great so we're predicting whether
a customer will stop making purchases in
the next month now for the final
question do you want to predict this on
a recurring basis like daily weekly
monthly or is there a specific event
after which you want to predict for
example do you want to predict this
every week for all customers or only for
customers after they make a purchase or
after they sign up well I actually want
to predict this on a monthly basis so
I'll send
monthly excellent so you want to make
this prediction on a monthly basis here
is your predictive question predict
monthly which customers will stop making
purchases in the next month exciting you
made it you can use this question as is
or we can refine it further would you
like to add more details to this
question no for me that looks good so
I'm going to hit looks good fantastic in
order to create a predictive SQL
notebook that fits your data
requirements we need to review your data
sounds good please note that pan
strictly adheres to data security
compliance standards being ISO 271 and
sock 2 so certified sure let's continue
with my
data let's talk
data to predict customer churn we need
to have historical data about your
customer's purchase Behavior do you have
a table that contains records of your
customer purchases this table should
include a unique identifier for each
customer like a customer ID and the date
of each purchase if you have such a
table could you please upload it as a
CSV file using the attachment button
next to the chat input line so that's
this one here I'll hit that I've got
this transactions file here so we'll
upload
that and we'll send
it so pcan analyzes the file and uh
finds all the different columns that are
in the source file and also attributes a
data type to each so um we need say this
looks
good great now let's identify the
necessary columns in your table we need
to find one the column that holds the
date of each purchase this is mandatory
as Pon cannot build a model without this
column and number two the column that
holds the unique identifier for each
customer this is also mandatory could
you please tell me the names of these
columns in your table so we have the
date column here and right at the top we
have the customer ID column so I'm just
going to say date and customer uncore
ID perfect so we have the date of each
purchase in the dates column the unique
identifier for each customer in the
customer ID column just to confirm are
these the correct columns that we should
use for the prediction yes wonderful
here's a summary of the information
you've provided Okay so we've got the
predictive question that we formulated a
minute ago
uh and information about the data schema
the table and the columns that we need
so if that all looks good we're going to
hit generate
notebook and it'll start the process of
generating the predictive notebook now
this might take a minute or two so let's
jump forward to once it's done and here
we are in the generated notebook or
notbook as we're working with pcan of
course so using this pcan notebook
you'll be able to train an ml or machine
learning model that answers your
predictive question the one that we
formulated a minute ago so the celles
below contain queries SQL queries that
were automatically generated based on
your predictive question running them
will create a training Set uh using pans
format comprised of two parts so the two
parts there's a core set which is a
table with historical examples of
customers who did or did not stop making
purchases and attribute tables so
additional tables with relevant
information about the customers so
if we go down here we see Finding
relevant customers for our core set
we're trying to learn how to make a
monthly prediction on customers as a
basis to learn from our training set
first needs to have a table with a row
for each pair of customer and each month
so this first query here it says this
will return all days weeks or months in
the given time frame and you can run
these different queries independently
let me just run this one
here and the result or at least a
preview of the result will appear below
here and this uh the name being given to
this cell is monthly sampling helper
table okay if we keep going down next
we'll write a query that will find
relevant customer per sampled data so
that's this query here now obviously you
don't need to know SQL you can just run
these queries but obviously it does help
um to understand SQL a little bit to
know what's going on with these queries
let's just run
this there we go
success uh the label our positive and
negative examples in order to train a
model we need to give it both positive
and negative examples in our context the
positive examples are customers who stop
making purchases in the next month after
each sampled month um so this query
below will'll Now find positive and
negative examples from historical data
let's run
this and there we go did the customer
stop making purchases within next month
and for each customer ID we've got yes
and
no if we keep going down additional
useful data to help train the model as
mentioned it's important to include
additional tables with information about
our prediction subjects at pan we call
these attribute tables we used your data
to create a sample attribute table so
that's this one here here attribute one
using the file that we uploaded for
additional data features and we can see
here it's taken some of the other fields
from that file let's run this
[Music]
query and there we go it's successfully
run that query too if you want you can
just click this button here to run them
all but if you want to sort of
understand step by step what's going on
and the results that are being returned
then you can just do one by one one so
and that's it um we're now ready for
pcan to train the model let's review
what we did so we created a table the
core set that samples the history of
customers determining whether they stop
making purchases or not per each sample
date which serves as uh positive and
negative examples the model can learn
from and then secondly we added
additional tables the attribute tables
that provide more information for each
of the customers up to each sample date
this extra data enhances the model
ability to infer patterns and make
accurate predictions makes sense
exciting the final step would be to
click train model at the top that's this
uh purple button here let's hit that and
we have two options in terms of training
mode we have fastest and production
quality obviously production quality
takes several hours so for our purposes
we're going to stick to
fastest uh data mapping and we're just
going to validate and train
obviously this is going to take a while
so let's jump forward once that's run we
end up in the model tab where first off
we can see the model's evaluation in
terms of its performance we can see it
has a Precision of
66.4% which is 2.6 times better than
rule-based logic and 3.9 times better
than a random guess we can see other
things like the performance details
threshold configuration and also the top
top contributing columns to the model
predictions we can see here that payment
recency is contributing
69.9% of the model's prediction so we
can see here this column significantly
dominates your model's prediction
suggesting possible overdependence and
potential issues we'll sort that out in
a minute so in the model output tab we
can see a sample of the rows so in terms
of the customer and the probability the
the classification and the veracity of
the
result so let's go back to
queries we can see here that notebooks
are locked once a model is sent to
training so if we did want to edit this
model in any way perhaps by adding more
data we would need to duplicate it which
I can do here or I'll just go back to
this screen here where we can see the
notebook we've previously created I'm
going to click here and select
duplicate and open up this new
copy so in terms of importing or adding
new data we have this part section here
where we can choose to add new data
there's this customers file in fact I've
already included that here so I can
generate this as an attribute this will
create a new cell so we can see here
that this new customers information
could help better train the model so
when we run all this new data will be in
included so that's adding CSV data but
what about other data sources well if I
come down to here I can choose to add
data and create a new connection and we
can see a menu of all of the different
data sources that we have at our
disposable so we have relational
databases like SQL server and MySQL we
have data warehouses like Google
bigquery and Amazon redshift and other
data sources like Salesforce and hub
spot also we can see coming soon Google
ads and green plum if you don't see your
data source on this list you can click
here and suggest a new on for
development so we've seen how to predict
customer churn but what other Solutions
are available from pcan Straight Out of
the Box well in terms of user
acquisition we've got things like
marketing mix modeling predictive
campaign Ras or return on ad spend
campaign optimization using scan and
Lead scoring with predictive analytics
for customer engagement as well as
customer churn we've got customer
winback and upsell and cross sell and in
terms of supply chain we've got demand
forecasting now if you're worried about
not having any data to practice this
with not to worry pcan has you covered
if we go to their main page here we
actually have two tutorial notebooks
that you can play around with so don't
hesitate to do that so a massive thank
you to pcan for sponsoring today's video
it really does help out the channel and
keeps the content coming if you want to
check them out which I highly recommend
you do I'll leave a link in the
description or just head on over to pan.
a thanks so much for watching and I'll
see you soon for another video Until
then bye
