let's learn about introduction and
overview of the sa sap analytics Cloud
so what is sap analytics Cloud sap
analytics cloud is an saps Flagship
product in the over overall analytics
portfolio which uh which is a single
analytics Pro product uh which covers
multiple aspects of the business
intelligence planning predictive and
application building this is a single
product which SCP has come up with and
has powerful features which which covers
many of the areas and which is very um
powerful for the business uh users this
is an overview of the product which says
what what it contains about the sap
Antics Cloud so whatever you see here
sap Antics Cloud which is having some
digital Board Room mobile and analytics
Hub are the components but uh the most
important aspects are this business
intelligence planning recording and
application design business intelligence
will cover most of the things related to
the report side or the stor telling
which is creating a stories then
planning cover covering um sharing the
simulation of different charts we are
creating predictive is about the
forecasting automated insights so
whatever the forecasting uh to be done
can be done with the predictive um
components here and application design
is for the custom applications which
which is based on the SDK extensions and
this analytics Cloud uh or SS uh is the
tool which is based in the cloud and
this Cloud can be an on premise or
hybrid or Cloud on premise means the
cloud which is hosted on the premises of
whatever uh the organization is having
hybrid is consisting of the cloud and
both Cloud means it is hosted by the sap
cloud system so why sap Antics cloud is
important and what is the business uh
for sap Antics cloud in uh today's word
to in terms of the change happening over
the data uh you can see means data
driven organizations uh happening
digital transformation then it comes to
data and intelligence at the center
based on the data what are the different
analysis we can do do and what are the
different types of decisions can be
taken uh so it all depends upon the data
so that is the first uh point of uh for
business uh for the sap Antics Cloud uh
so
the data growth which is happening like
you you can see from this uh figure
which says new data types or larger
volume and new locations coming there
are some experience data and operational
data and that all comes to different
different areas one is analytics then
Big Data iot IML blockchain so we as sap
Antics cloud is focused on here which is
in analytics
area it starts from the data and the
information collected from different
different business areas and uh from
this data and information the insight
has been taken and um it provides an
action and lastly uh the value value is
the important uh aspect of the any of
the
organization what are the data we are
having what are the information we are
creating and what are the Insight we are
getting from the tool and then what are
the actions we are suggesting for the
business so based on the action
taken by the business users what are the
lastly what are the values they are
getting so this is important to
understand decision making evaluation so
if you see means the uh earlier uh
decision making how it it it was
happening like linear then Dynamic and
augmented so linear means will be
historical and then it depends upon the
static it has topown approach and it was
costly so it came then later came about
the dynamic which was self-service it
was having fast iterations but
distributed so depending upon the
different different areas it was
distributed based on the data it was
having then uh now the
area the focus should be on augmented
analytics
or artificial intelligence d one so it
it happens instant adjustment and it is
a continuous so the last step here which
is given plan discover analyze PR
predict act and plan so this is very
important so based on the current data
what is the plan what is the Discovery
we can do means based on the data what
are the analysis we can do and then what
are the predictions we can make for next
6 months or next uh one year or three
year or five year plan so that that's
what it depends upon and the actions or
the ACT we are going to provide so that
the business can plan so this is a
iterative now in the today's word who is
doing what so data engineers in data
data analysis analyst and scientists
analyzing the data decision makers
receive the analysis data and take
decisions and employees receive the
decision and act accordingly so these
are the four important um stakeholders
for the sap Antics Cloud uh so who who
are important to this and all these
tools no no any other tools like no no
tools provide all of the above features
at the same time so it depends upon all
this information but the center for
anything is data and based on the data
what is the analysis and from the
analysis what are the decisions we are
going to provide to the employees so for
this uh intelligent framework is one
concept which is having the three
component intelligent digital platform
and intelligence Technologies so this is
very important to understand mean this
is which is having all this information
so what are the intelligence um
information we are having what are the
digital platform or the uh environments
we are going to provide in and what are
the intelligence Technologies which are
here there to provide the
suggestions now uh in terms of sap
Antics Cloud uh automating the discovery
of the insights and giving us an
opportunity to sap uh leverage data
science so data science is one thing so
sap antic cloud is a complete tool which
will have all the information so we can
have discover analyze plan and predict
in one user experience then it can from
data to in intelligence it can take data
make some um analysis and can provide
some end to end decisions as well to the
business users and for all decision
types so it it depends it for all the
decision types mean it may be strategic
or maybe operational or tactical
decisions uh so this is a confident tool
means uh another feature is a confident
means it can provide conversational
means in natural Lang English language
uh users can ask questions and they can
get the data analysis easily in a
effective way and it is automated me it
is a very automated detect drivers for
kpi and it is predictive so in
predictive it can predict potential
outcomes and forecast with the push of a
button means it just a simple click and
we can get the next 6 months or five
years prediction as well that is uh that
is why it is confident
tool contextual means it contains all
the information based on the data it can
prepare various charts various
dashboards or board rooms and can plan
um the data and can provide some
insights which will provide uh means
actions to the employees or the business
users and then it have the data literacy
as well which will increase the data
literacy engagement and accountability
with the common business language and uh
once we have this all insight to action
and data it can be intelligence Network
so whatever the data intelligence
collected from different different um
areas of the word or business
application that can be combined in the
cloud and that that should be possible
with this um sap antic Cloud so as this
is a data to intelligence framework we
can see means once we have this business
intelligence then interise planning and
then augmented analytics so this is one
thing augmented analytics is very
powerful where it it provides some uh
smart Discovery search to Insight smart
predict are the powerful features which
are provided under augmented analytics
the center is data and from the data
what is the intelligence we are getting
so this is the main uh Concepts we
should be aware about this uh sap Antics
Cloud why it is there and what is the um
purpose of it so that's it from this
video I hope you have understood the
main basic concepts of the SCP Antics
cloud in this video I'm going going to
tell you about how to get started with
the sap Antics Cloud so that you can do
some Hands-On uh practice on the SCP
Antics Cloud so to do this just go to
Google uh.com and you can just search
for SCP Antics cloud and the first very
first page which is comes about sap
Antics uh. Cloud if you when you click
on this uh you can see uh uh a website
which gets open uh which says about all
the information about the antic cloud
and it does have the start your uh free
30-day trial version um for getting
access or if you wanted to uh get a
license version as well so to get
started means we can get started with
the initially on 30-day trial uh so to
do this just click on this once you
click on this uh you will get a page
open where it will ask you um your email
ID so you just need to mention the
business email ID uh for for getting
this get free trial once you provide
your email ID you just need to check
this uh and then get the free trial once
you click on this you will get an um
email of the confirmation about the scpx
cloud and once we activate that account
from the email uh sap andx Cloud gets uh
we get the user ID and the password so
once we have this so it just uh
specifies uh uh that trial um so so this
is one Tri trial user which I have got
and similar way which is there uh so
where I
have got this um activated for 30 days
now uh when we log to this uh you can
see means this is the home screen of
this application and we can do our
practice on the initial basis on this so
you have this option of uh this home uh
then there are some profiles settings
available here but the important part is
here means what is what are the
different things which we can do so
creating story antic applications so all
these things we will see in detail in
the next coming videos but these are
some of the options which are available
here and um by doing this uh so there
are some options disabled as well
because we have the trial version we
don't have some access as well for some
of the features like security then some
deployment and some other uh things as
well so this is uh this is the things uh
this it will come like uh some sample
story as well you can see uh this is
something which is there already
and so there is one sample for dashboard
they have provided with this to
understand this if you click on brow
browse files uh we get an option to see
here and in the samples folder there is
one option uh one application which is
sample revenue and analysis so this is
very uh detailed uh analysis application
or dashboard which is provided here
which gives all the information here so
you can see uh various charts has been
created uh there are some um gross
margin percentage is given here um then
date range filter as well here it is
given like this so uh all this is uh you
can see different different charts
available um product by State uh then uh
how each product has been performed over
the year so this is also it has been
provided uh then there is one um if you
if you just filter out here uh that it
gets changed automatically the data so
this is also very powerful I think Miss
um if you click on this sales manager
overview as well this is another thing
where which is provided which sales
managers are top five which are bottom
five um and how much revenue they have
so all this kind of analysis it has
provided and it is very helpful uh so
this is another tab which provides some
information in some different charts as
well so this is uh very good to uh see
uh like uh ge maps and all those things
so if you can see this is very powerful
in terms of um analysis applications we
are going to build and uh all we are
going to learn this how how to build
these geom Maps then these types of
charts and all those things based on our
data we will see this in detail in
coming videos uh how to build all these
analysis applications um but this is an
overview of this Tool uh there are some
options available here mean uh which
which are there so once this trial uh
basically this trial is just for 30 days
and they also allows us to extend it to
another 60 days so in total we can get 0
days of trial as well and if you wanted
to buy then you can click on this buy
now option and um it has provided this
information which which is for business
it's for do 22 per uh user per month so
it depends upon uh how much uh users how
many users you wanted to have and all
those things
so uh when we have we buy the license
version it gives on premises data source
connections as well in trial version
will not get that uh feasibility or
flexibility to connect to different data
sources but this is how it is uh so we
can buy this as well um so we will see
U many things on this uh Tools in coming
videos so I hope uh you have got an idea
how to get started with this Cloud uh
tool in this video I am going to take
core functionalities of sap Antics Cloud
let's see one by one what are are the
different core functionalities of sap
Antics Cloud before understanding uh
functionalities of the cloud antic Cloud
let's learn about the intelligence area
era so as you know means initially it is
it was Industrial Automation then it was
a business process automation era and
then digital transformation so all this
were digital era and then now it is
intelligence era so in intelligence era
we need to understand means what is
intelligence era and uh what are the
what is expected uh from intelligence
era the first point is do more with less
that means we should be more proactive
than reactive means by looking at the
current or the historical data we should
be able to predict the next uh so that
we need to see uh deliver Basin class
experiences in the computation era
Thrive for excellence that is what we
should be able to uh see invention of
new business model uh we should be able
to proactively search for new business
opportunities because the uh the pace of
the changing um business is important
and we need to understand that and we
should be able to take uh proper
decisions to search for the new business
opportunities embedded intelligence is
one thing where providing intelligence
at the core of the business driving
day-to-day day decision making so this
is important uh to understand all these
aspects what is intelligence era
so what is in sap antic Cloud so there
are two things one is embedded
intelligence and open Innovation so
embedded intelligence allows Frontline
employees to make better day-to-day
decisions relevant to the application
they interact uh which can identify
critical sales factor identify risk flag
employees who are risk of leaving the
business so this is also important to
understand means the risk of the
employees uh who are going to stay in
the organization and who are going to to
live so that is also we need to
understand open Innovation allows
organization uh to evaluate internal and
external data to predict business
outcomes uh optimizing day-to-day
important however intelligence can
influence the unknown so this is also
important now the main feature or the
main capability of the analytics cloud
is smart analytics our augmented cap
capabilities so there are two things
search to Insight and smart insight
so search to insights Works based on the
visualization uh it's not just
visualization but use a natural language
to query the data users can just type
some languages um some uh queries in the
English language and the tool can
generate the uh quickly can generate
various types of reports in in graphical
and in tabular formats as well so it is
not always visualization only smart
inser is explain any data point measure
or Dimension to further add the trend
and pattern Discovery process so we will
both we will see this practically how
this is uh to be
implemented smart features is also
another options available where built-in
connectors to different different data
sources available intelligent algorithms
highlighting possible data quality
issues and distributing the data so this
is also uh key one smart transformation
which allows to quickly address and
solve data quality issues uh we have the
growing library of business contents
across 15 plus Industries and 27 plus
lines of business any type of business
if you have you can come to this uh
Cloud uh tool analytics cloud and uh we
can uh integrate that business uh to
build powerful visualizations and story
bols so faster way to find answers uh we
can just type questions and instantly
generate meaningful visualization we can
recognize important Trends with a click
of button and visualization within
context explanation uh there is machine
learning technology also used where we
can take accurate decisions and
predictive model is also powerful
feature which works in the background to
identify key drivers or factors that
influence the
business so predictive forecasting uh
which forecast future performance with
the single click we can automatically
update projections as new data comes uh
becomes available and data detect the
risk and not to miss the targets
in summary sap antis cloud is very
powerful tool which has initiative smart
features uh with Advanced machine
learning Technologies uh it is
accessible to everyone so anyone can
access it at any time on any
devices uh one simple Cloud which is
integrated behind planning Insurance
insights are acted upon is simple and
easy so uh these all the our um core
capabilities of the sap Antics Cloud
let's learn some of the concepts about
the cloud uh what are the different
types of cloud and in this video I'm
going to tell tell you about the cloud
on premise and hybrid uh clouds which
are important to understand means in
terms of understanding sap Antics Cloud
so what sap Antics offers so sap Antics
CL Cloud can offer on premise
application so on premise application or
on premise Cloud that means it is hosted
by customer or the client all the set
all the user rights and access rights
are maintained by the customer so it
just um we just need to give our sap
Antics Cloud uh to the customer uh so it
is hosted by the customer there is
cloud-based application uh it is hosted
by provider suppose provides the sap
Cloud then it is hosted by sap and then
it maintains all the user rights user
roles and granting access to different
different users so all this based on the
cloud-based application the third system
is hybrid it can be possible some of the
uh things maintain in the on premise and
some of the things maintain at the cloud
Base by the provider
so it can be possible we can connect to
both cloud and on premises uh tool so
all these three are different different
types of the sap Antics uh Cloud
actually but in sap Antics Cloud um Can
can give any of the service uh for for
the customers
uh to understand more in about sap
Antics architecture so this is something
which is gives some more information
about the sap Antics Cloud architecture
so you can see uh we do have some
applications then Antics capabilities
core capabilities and P platform our
service so sap Cloud platform is sap
Sap's Cloud which
is hosted by and it is provided to the
customer so what are the core
capabilities of analytics Cloud you can
see uh it is it provides data connec
connectivity data wrangling data
modeling Administration auditing
visualization collaboration mobile and
API so all these are the core
capabilities of the sap Antics Cloud uh
then we can see analytic capabilities
once uh we build some um database
connectivity or preparing data wrangling
data modeling then it comes about the
antic capability so where sap antic
cloud is uh useful where it is bi
planning predictive and application
design so in in bi it can be possible to
have uh Discovery and then charts and
tables goo maps all this kind of
visualization in planning we can have
events and workflow allocation and value
Dev driver tree simulation uh in
predictive we have Smart assist build
and deploy predictive models and in
application design we have scripting
components uh UI themes and style sheet
which is for application design based on
the SD case and uh the lastly the app
are sap digital boardroom sap Antics Hub
and mobile experience so these are the
different different things we can do SAP
digital boardroom we will see
practically as well sap analytics Hub as
well we see means what is the use of It
Mobile experience how we can we can see
how we can build the mobile uh the
applications which can be displayed over
the mobile devices as well so that we
will see and um the sap Cloud platform
can connect to the Amazon web services
cloud data sources and it applications
uh sap Data Center well uh like it's on
premise data sources and applications so
this is overall architecture of the sap
Antics cloud in this video we will see
preparation sharing and collaboration
the basic concepts and overview of this
functionality which sap Antics Cloud
provides the first thing is about
understanding the basic Cloud Concepts
which says data visualizations and share
when we say data we need to acquire the
data using connections to different
different different data providers so
there are so many data providers which
we will see later uh to which we sap an
Cloud can connect and acquire the data
and then this data once acquired we can
create different different story board
and
visualizations or the charts uh geom
maps and all kinds of visualization uh
we can explore this visualization so
that is visualization and the lastly is
a share or collaborate so once we have
created the different uh story boards or
the analysis applications we can uh
share with the other users uh different
uh business stakeholders who can uh make
use of it so that that is the third step
for
this so what is the data acquisition and
what are the different data providers we
can connect to uh acquire the data so
here you can see right from sapana bbpc
Erp we can connect to the bo Universe
And Then There are some other apart from
s sap data providers which are SQL IBM P
data we can con connect to the MS SQL
Server MySQL Oracle and open Edge as
well we can also use o data services um
we can use Excel as well XLS or CSV
files as well and uh to the cloud
connections as well we can connect like
success factors field guards conquer and
Google drive as well we can connect to
acquire some data as you can see um
these are the live connections what are
the sap connections we have like here
Hana bw2 sap Bo universes they are live
connection that means it is directly
connected to those data providers
however we don't need uh to acquire the
data directly so it is just a
replication happening at the uh data
provider
end so the second step is a data
preparation so once we have acquired the
data by connecting to different
different data uh sources
then we need to prepare the data so to
prepare the data means we need to create
models we can create models which can be
used to prepare the data we can create
the hierarchies which is parent child
level can be inserted uh because it is
required as per business as well to have
some hierarchical report reports or
visualization to be created uh we can
create some custom formulas as well
which can be used to modify the data we
can combine data find and linking me
join of the different different types of
data in a single um model we can use
grouping functionality as well um that
we will
see and then uh last step is
collaboration uh once we have created
different visualization or the dashboard
or the story board or the digital
boardroom we can share that with the
different uh business stakeholders we
can have a discussion with them and then
we can ask some questions to them we can
ask them feedback about the
visualizations or the data so that we
can take proper decisions to improve our
visualization we can assign some tasks
to them which which is useful for them
to complete it uh so that it will be
beneficial for as a developer as well
for us and the sharing stories we can
share the stories internally and
externally internally means within the
organization or to externally to other
organization or other business users as
well let's learn practically about
models in the sap antic clouds the
theoretical section I have already
covered what is models so model is a
basis for all the
analytical visualizations we are going
to create so the very first uh step to
to our analytics or visualizations is
creating models model is a
representation of the data business data
of an organization which is high level
design for the anti requirements of an
user so that is what model is and there
are two types of the models which is one
is planning model and the other one is
analytical models so in planning model
uh it is preconfigured with the time and
categories uh with the actual budget
forecast and rolling forecast values the
other model is analytical model which is
a very simple general purpose bi related
models which consist of um dimensions
and measures uh that we will see
here basically to understand models
first we need to understand the
dimensions and measures what is
dimensions and what is measures so
basically when we say measures so
measures comes like in the format of the
aggregated values like sales revenue
quantity sold or cost kind of things are
measures while dimensions are like kind
of this which is state city product and
time so these are something which is
Dimensions which represents the data uh
which is so it will all always have one
to many relationship mean state will may
have many record in the sales table so
it is a transactional data so um you can
see from this diagram that it's state
city product and time is Dimensions uh
dimensions and it it all has one to many
relationships so this is the basic
concepts of the dimensions let's see one
by one uh how we can uh create models in
this uh let's create a model from here
uh you will see an option of on home
screen you will have a create model
option so let's create uh model so when
we say create model we can either import
from our computer with some uh files or
we can get data from data source so
basically when we click on this data
source you will see the how to acquire
data by connecting to different
different uh data providers so it does
have all um types of data providers
provided here which is a live data we
you can say cloud for customer Cloud for
customer and Conquer field glass Hanam
success Vector data sets Google big
drive so there are so many data types
there are some uh disabled as well
because it is a trial version it is not
uh POS mean uh available here but there
are some other as well uh there are some
data source type as well so cloud or on
premises we already saw what is cloud
and what is on premise uh data data
types so that we will see here you can
connect there are cloud storage CRM data
warehouse and there are different
different um categories defined and you
can see Google as well so Google Drive
we can connect to Google Drive there are
sap open connectors so it depends upon
when we say cloud then it will just show
Cloud databases these are the cloud
databases when we say on premises then
in on premises it will just have these
options which is like this and this for
now to create a model we can just import
file from our computer uh which is XLS
file for now let's do that when we click
on that let's it select source file from
here and I have one file which is
available there which is sales data you
can see use first row as column headers
so suppose we have first row generally
in model uh we have the first row as a
column headers so that is what it is so
we can say uh we can select this option
so that it will it will select as a
column
address and let's create on click on
import once we click on import it will
take some time to get it
loaded so now we have this model is
imported means basically the data is
imported in and we have models so you
can see means the tool will
automatically select the data types and
all those things so you can see uh this
is um when we click on this columns so
uh what are the Excel headers are there
so this is an Excel file which is
uh I have imported as to create a model
so the uh first row is um column header
so which will be taken as column headers
here so you can see it
here the similar way so you can see on
the right side there are different
different uh so when we say uh models so
when when the model is created it it
shows model quality and then data
quality calculation issues so if there
are any issues then it will show issues
if there are no issues then no issues
detected it show shows 36 rows 14
columns seven dimensions 7 seven measur
so it automatically identified which are
the dimensions and which are the
measures uh the data which is this XLS
file then there are some other fields
which is default currency for model
which will uh uh is defined for this uh
p
now suppose this is a date column and it
has selected a generic Type U basically
it is um not uh generic Dimension mean
it is not so it is it is a date type so
we we can change this data type here so
and we can select date once we select
this as a
date then it will uh automatically take
its data date format so it will select y
y y so year and month is the format so
if that generally it will select
automatically if it is not selected
automatically then we can um choose by
our own means what are the different
different or we can make it a different
format as well if you want so uh this is
data quality issues no data quality
issues detected and so data distribution
so you can see mean what is uh for each
what how many count and all those things
so so once we have the is uh created uh
now um you can see these are the generic
Dimensions it's just a state stra city
store um is generic Dimension so you can
see there is uh all information so what
is California how many count of Records
so 12 NE 12 like this so it will show up
here there are two options of U two
columns also in the model which is
latitude and longitude so this is also
we need to have when we create create a
go map so this is important to
understand me how um this columns can be
uh used for creating Geo Maps so when we
once we have this we can create some
locations so this is latitude and
longitude so we can select go enrichment
option here and by uh coordinates
because this is a latitude and longitude
uh the coordinate so we can select this
and we can create another location
description so we can just click on this
coordinates we can give some name so
this is location um so it has maximum
length so we can say
um so location coordination uh so these
are the options available it had
automatically taken uh latitude is a
column which is available in this uh
model so latitude will Define this
latitude column values longitude will
longitude will take and this is
something which is location ID we can
select here here we can select the state
and location description which is which
should be unique so basically a store
here is having unique values
so so this is something which is we can
select so that it will be uh creating
that location so just create um click on
this now once we click on this it it
will create another column with the
location um coordinations so you can see
uh the another column which is got
created
so here you can see uh these are some of
the state and this its coordinates which
is created and now we can create uh uh
we can use this column to create our um
geom map so that we will see how to
create it as well so this is one thing
we can do it the other points is about
the measures so when we select the
measur columns as well you can see it is
automatically uh created uh so it it it
automatically identify this is a measure
then it's a number format what is the
number format if you want we can change
uh this number
format uh there is scaling also we can
specify here uh decimal places if you
just wanted to keep uh two decimals then
also you can keep it as two
decimal so now once we have this all
Dimensions which are these four
dimensions are there you can see how to
differentiate this measures and
dimension
uh so like you can see this icon which
is um this like Star icon like this
which is dimensions and measures will
have different um icon here so that it
will be easy to understand me which are
this and you can see location as well it
is identified as a different
icon date is also like calendar icon it
is there so this is very um useful to
identify Dimensions measures and uh date
columns now uh once we have this um mean
unnecessary column mean suppose latitude
and longitude we have created another
column column which is for location
coordinates we can delete out this means
it is not required to uh select this
column and uh then you
can select um delete column from here so
this is not required so um we can delete
out this
this as well so basically when we say
because that is unnecessary and we don't
want to show that to the end users as
well as when they create
so just to avoid some confusions while
creating visualization so this is
location coordinates column which is uh
used here now uh all these things are
done means you can see um uh there are
options
one more thing which which is adding a
parent child hierarchies as well you can
see there are two like this is category
and uh product so uh we can um enable
parent child hierarchies as well which
is required when we uh drill through the
analysis of the data for this creating
um parent child hierarchies we can uh
just click on this column suppose parent
product is um child and categories a
parent so how we can Define the parent
child hierarchies so just click on this
column and add Dimension attributes when
you click on this we can have option of
parent child
hierarchies this is the one uh we can
select and we can select which column is
a parent so we have for categories we
have product as
a uh category as a app parent so this
this this option we can select now you
can see this category has become a
parent child and if you click on this
category option you can see parent child
hierarchy and parent of a product
Dimension so this is option um we can um
see so by using this hierarchical column
like this you can see this Icon by using
this hierarchical columns we can create
our visualization um like drill down on
different different uh
columns so this is what the basic thing
we can do uh there are different options
that we will see in detail as well me
like creating a transform and all those
things uh there are many things which we
can do with these models while we create
so we will see that as well for now
we'll just create a model on this just
create uh create model once you click it
it will ask have you finished mapping
and editing your data so we can just
click on Create and uh now we can give
some data is let's say this is an opt uh
so we can select folders as well here
means if you want and just click on okay
it will take some time to uh generate
the model depending upon the size of the
data it takes time so once now we can
see model or sales model is created
successfully we got a message saying
that this is created now you can see
this is the file which is got created uh
imported and we can see now um there are
few important aspects of this model to
understand is like when we click on this
model you will see account is
one dimension attributes so we can
say then date is like time all are
generic one so if you click on this
account you will see all the dimens all
the fact um fact or measure values like
discount gross margin sales revenue will
come under this account so this is
important to understand means all
measor values will fall under
account Dimension and then date so date
is another thing where we can
specify its type and it's glity so
basically from the this GL is it is
automatically decided by its month
because our column is like year and
month value so it says month suppose if
you have date uh daily data then it it
it may decide this granularity as dat
date or day so this is by default due to
based on the data and default hierarchy
is year quarter month so this is uh we
can specify means what is hierarchy so
this is basically we have select it
automatically selected but we can change
that as well there are some settings
available here which is when we click on
these settings you can see so general
settings you can see this is model type
is analytical we can see analytical type
model layout account and then sales
model we can change this name as well
here then uh data security as well user
privileges to whom it can be accessible
and all those things data audit data
locking uh so we can enable that if you
have a permission to do
it so data access controll Dimensions so
we can if you want Miss we can uh select
this so these are the different options
which are available fiscal time is
suppose we wanted to um give the
financial year um so when it t like some
some countries have the financial or
fiscal year of April to March next year
so that you can specify here is where
when it can start planning and time
range this is for planning uh models
currency so default currency is USD if
you want we can change it uh to
different as well uh so currency
conversion also we will see in detail
how to do this currency conversion so we
need to select this option data and
performance so so whether optimize story
building performance so these are the
options which are available
here so this is about the DAT D
Dimensions date attributes then all is
generic which is here so if you select
this as well you can see um what are
these values and what are the different
if it is hierarchies enabled or not so
we can if you want means we can create
hierarchies from here as well so these
are the three important Dimension which
are available one is account uh then
date and generic so these these three
dimensions we should be able to
understand means when when the models
are
created you can uh you can see uh when
we this is another list View and this is
a uh grid view you can say where it will
just list out all the dimensions uh one
by one there are other options uh we can
just select like this edit add new
dimension we can add from new from here
as
well so this is what we can um see uh
now once we have this um model created
we can uh browse this models as well
means we can go to files and where we
can see our model which is created here
here you can see sales model so when we
click on this it will uh um we open like
the similar way uh this that's it from
this video we will see PR practically
how to create stories from this model
let's learn practically about viewing
the data from the model in the last
video we have created one um model based
on one of the Excel sheet um and based
on that we have uh created different
different uh topics which we have seen
in the last video so let's try to
connect to that uh model and try to see
the data which is uh we have uh created
so to do this go to U menu option here
where we can just create uh a
story uh just select this option uh so
once you uh select this option you will
get an various options to choose
different different templates to create
some stories or we can just access and
explore data so for now we will just see
how to access uh and explore data there
are different options available here as
well uh we can just directly select our
file or any Excel file or anything or we
can connect to different different data
sources like um Live Connections or
input connections and then data acquired
from an existing model so we do have
already an existing model which is uh
created so we will select that once we
select this and then just select that
option uh means where we can see um
various options available so now when uh
it comes by default it has two tabs here
which is one is story and one is data so
now um when we say we don't have
anything here uh
so we uh by default it is our suggested
is a numeric point chart which is here
uh we can select different different
charts as well from here other tables
but before that we can we need to select
uh the measures so suppose we wanted to
see the measures value just select uh
this quantity sold then it's it will
come so if you want another just select
the another me uh measures as well so
that it will show up here this is the
thing which is there um now what we can
do this is just a measures but if you
wanted to add some Dimensions as well
then just select on this uh once we
click on this we can just say select all
so that it will come up all these things
so now uh this is the uh options and if
you just wanted to filter out suppose
for one city we wanted to see the sales
revenue or quantity uh or something just
select that particular then we can get
so this is one filter which is applied
here you can say what is this so means
we can remove this filter again means
from here and uh there is one more
option to remove this filter is from
here as well like so you will see clear
selection option here available so these
are the different different options
available uh which is here now suppose
we wanted to see the T data in the
tabular format we can go to here we can
select this option as a
table now uh so when we select table
format it will show what is this a
quantity sold and sales Reven in tabular
format now suppose I wanted to add a
city column just click on this city
column now it will come up like this I
wanted to have a data as well so just
select this data as well so you will see
uh for various dates it is a kind of a
drill or hierarchical data for each of
the date it will show automatically so
no need to do anything uh customize or
development uh so for this particular
manager or just select the manager so
this is something I
just so if you just wanted to add
manager here do add
managers or some other columns as well
so this way we can uh see all the
columns data in particular way and
wherever the hierarchies so remember in
last video we have created hierarchies
for product and categories so you can
see for others this product there is
some category for which we which is
appearing here now now we can see uh uh
this is this is how it is now we can
change some uh this to chart as well uh
so let's let's select a line chart maybe
uh so this is the way it can be possible
to uh display it and suppose we wanted
to do some formatting on the charts we
can go to the designer mode and from
here we can select suppose if we don't
want to have uh um Dimensions uh we can
remove it from here like and then uh
suppose the color panel we can choose
from here as well we can change the
color
panels uh so these are some of the
measures which are there let's see some
other uh charts as well
here say this is a bar column so this is
just a simple chart and um you can see
this is a uh like in in this uh vertical
format if you wanted to in horizontal as
well you can uh do it uh so these are
the some of the things which are
available there
then suppose you don't want to see sales
revenue column or just quanti so just
click on this so it will automatically
remove it mean it just it will just show
sales revenue we will see all these
details one by one for each and um every
chart later and separate videos
but this is what how we want we can see
the data but there is other things which
are there so if you click on this story
stories also just we can create
different different tables or charts
here uh based on our requirement uh so
you can see me here insert chart suppose
I just wanted to insert some chart here
and um so uh it will automatically take
that sales model and then it will charge
structure horizontal or vertical so
let's say vertical
if you wanted to add some measures let's
add some measures so let's say gross
magin and sales revenue we wanted to
display so this is how it is we wanted
to add some Dimensions let's add
Dimensions so City and for manages in
each City so these are the some things
which we can do uh there are some other
things which is about the colors and all
those things which we can uh change from
here you can see different different
colors so suppose this is something
which is you wanted to change
um
so this these are some of the formatting
there are various or many features
available so this is what it is uh we
can add directly a table as well
here so in table as well uh we can add
um different different fields like uh in
the designer if you go we can add a
measures and dimensions which is like
this we can add some filters as well so
this is how it is uh we can do various
types of um data to be shown on the
storage so we will see one by one how to
build stories and what are the different
different templates we can select and
what are the different ways to design
the same so this is this is how I wanted
to show you um now if you click on this
view then it will show up me how this
will look like so this is how it is so
that's what I wanted to show in this
video where how we can connect to our
models and how we can view our data
which is we have created let's learn
about Connections and data models in sap
Antics
Cloud so what are the different
connection types there are two
connection types available live uh as
live data and import data as the name
suggest live data will be connected to
uh sap data sources on real time while
import data will we need to import the
data from the database provider or
database connections and then use uh to
create different models in the uh sap
antic Cloud so we'll see what is the
difference between uh sap uh live data
connections and UT data connections so
live data connections available on cloud
and on PR ises uh similar uh input data
connections is also available for cloud
and on premises data sources uh live
data connections does not replicate the
data in sap Antics cloud while uh we
need to replicate the data within the
sap Antics Cloud so whatever um data
refresh or data replication happens it
happens at the database site in live
data connections while uh in input
connections it does not happen and we
need to replicate thata in sap and
Cloud uh we can uh use SCP exist uh use
existing uh data models for analysis
when we use live data connection so
suppose we are connecting to sap Han
View and all maybees as well so that we
can use those directly for our analysis
while in input data connections we need
to acquire the data from the database uh
providers or data databases and then we
need to create a different models by
using the sap antic cloud modeler
we can in real live data connections
update your data visualization and
storage with the new data in real time
so as live data connections as it name
suggest it's live so it all happens on
real time while uh we need to refresh
and import data connection all our
visualization and stories when uh we
update the
applications so this is our data
connections environment um diagram which
says what what is input data connection
and how live data connections on the
left side of this diagram you can see uh
input data connections uh how it is it
has Cloud applications and this antic
Cloud will connect to the local files or
and it can then connect to the file
server then file server can use sap
antic Cloud agent and platform detector
uh connectors uh to connect to that
particular databases and then it can be
used and consumed or acquired by the
Antics cloud and then it can be used so
different data providers which are
conquer Salesforce field gases Global
driver the cloud applications or Cloud
connections uh which can be used uh
including success Vector o data hybrid
cloud while the live data connections we
can connect directly to sap Han BW sapes
um bpc um like HCC uh kind of um data
providers and it happens data directly
it uses uh um Co is cross origin uh
connectors uh and direct connection data
sources so let's see what is uh this and
which connections to we use uh so it all
depends upon the environment uh based on
the requirement for establishing live
and import data connections we can use
uh but sap recommends to creating live
data connections us using direct
connection uh type um like cross origin
resource sharing so this is one uh
connection uh connection type so if you
see what is C RS or cross origin
resource sharing so this is a mechanism
that uses additional sttp headers uh to
tell a browser to let web appliation
running at one origin and it has
permission to access selected resources
from a server at a different origin so
it can be possible mean suppose one um
application or web application is
running at one domain or one origin it
have the access to uh to other domain or
other origin or so that is CS mechanism
and that can be possible that is called
a cross origin HTTP request which access
different resources when uh it has uh
based in a different different origin
maybe it is domain protocol or
Port
so that's what sap recommends about
connecting they said it's better to use
live data
connections because that is more
flexible uh when we create
visualization in this video we will see
data preparation basic modeling how
basic modeling can be performed and what
is the basic uh Concepts about the
modeling so what is data modeling data
modeling model or data modeling is a
base for all SSC activities so what are
the things it starts with the data
model it describes the ways the data
will be analyzed provides structure and
different functions like calculation or
security and Sap's machine learning
technology helps automatically clean
your data by alerting of possible errors
and categorizing measures and
dimensions modeling tools helps to
enance the data for geo analysis and
multi-level hierarchies to gain deeper
insights basic understanding of the data
modeling is the is very important if you
understand models or the data models it
is going to be very easy to build your
visualizations and uh uh stories and uh
other um analysis
applications how to cre uh create uh me
model so uh from the menu you will have
an option of to create a model uh we
will be seeing this practically as well
so how to create a model so this is the
option to create a model and then we can
get uh an option to connect to the data
sources and uh get the acquire the files
of the database files sap analytics
Cloud bi offers two main components one
is models and the second one is storage
so model is the first step we can say uh
which provides various functionalities
like data wrangling or cleaning data
sets defining measures and dimensions
establishing hierarchies setting units
currencies and adding formulas once we
have that then there are two uh
important types of models is analytics
model and planning model so in this case
is uh so Antics model is based on
whatever the models we are retriving or
we are acquiring the data and planning
model is something related to the plan
planning functionality which is provided
by the sap and based on these models we
build storage uh to visualize the
prepared data coming from a model so
that is what stories are we will see
practically how to create stories as
well basic modeling uh we need to start
with the data integration strategy where
we will start start with the empty model
then upload an Excel or CSC file uh or
live data connections uh or data input
or maybe we can connect to the cloud
database as well so that is what we can
do with the as initial step for basic
modeling then common isage of for model
modeler will be blending data wrangling
setting units and currencies uh creating
hierarchies adding formulas so these
These are the various Concepts which are
required in modeling that we will see
practically what is data modeling um
data wrangling blendings and uh creating
hierarchies as
well video we will see how to perform
basic data modeling there are various
concepts related to the data modeling
and what is uh what what are they and we
will see that in detail first we will
see what is the process of the setup and
connection preparation modeling data
setup is onetime activity uh which is uh
done by the administrator which is uh
available on the system option which
says my abro Administration then
connection uh it is end user driven
operation either acquire data or connect
remote remotely that is by connecting uh
live data or maybe import data so that
two types of connections we can use
Preparation in preparation operations on
acquired data once that acquir data data
is acquired we need to cleanes the dirty
data or compile data sets and then
lastly is the modeling data power users
to create um common semantic layer for
all users enable security and planning
capability so once the data is acquired
it is cleaned or transform into a good
uh data sets uh the modeling data will
perform uh creating a semantic uh layer
so first thing where to start from home
screen we can get stor is automatically
created when we do one of the following
drag and drop a Microsoft Excel file
suppose we have a connection um file uh
any Excel file or CS file we can just
drag and drop on the home screen it will
automatically connect with the data and
then data model is Created from the
model as well we can connect to the all
supported uh data sources or data
providers and then uh once we have that
we can refresh that data or by importing
from a file and from Storage import a
Microsoft Excel or CSV file import an
existing file or connect to a Google
drive or Cloud connector so these are
the three options where from where we
can get started uh to get or acquire the
data into
SSC so the first step is semantic layer
which is a business representation of a
corporate data that helps end users
Access Data easily using common business
terms so model is SS semantic layer
which which has all the components
listed below which says dimensions and
measures security defined Dimensions
which are shared series of business rule
so all these are the required and we
should be able to understand what all
these components and why it is
needed there are uh three types of model
we can say planning type model and
analytic type model and analytics based
on Han views so planning type model
which is pre pre-configured with the
dimensions for time and categories uh
they offer support for multicurrency and
security features at the level of both
model and dimension and users with the
planning privilege can create their own
versions of the model data well the
second is antic type model which does
not support any time categories or D
time categories time and categories but
requires a um time Dimension so it
doesn't have any categories we will see
in detail with the example what is time
and what is categories so that it will
be helpful to understand with the
example an analytic model based on sap
Han view so simple model with a single
account Dimension but with access to
other dimension through sapana so
whatever the security is getting
inherited from the Pana these are the
model types which are and based on our
requirement or the business requirement
we should be using uh one of them then
data wrangling is one of the capability
of the modeling which which manipulate
the data to make it accurate and match
the business needs it just highlights or
focus on our higher value work whatever
require it works on so there are
following ways to uh do do a data
wrangling which is split we can split
the data in different way suppose we
have city city and state name in
combination we can separate out state
and city and separate two columns we can
convert to text to number we can
duplicate columns we can merge columns
we can edit single sales we can add
highlight for all sales with the same
value When selecting a sale we can
maintain a history of transformation
with undo and redo features as well so
whatever changes happening on the
transformations that we can um undo and
redo we can uh increase user creativity
uh where user can focus on higher valued
workflows through suggestion of most
obvious actions so we can suggest in for
data types transformation suggestion
based on individual selection this um so
the tool will automatically understand
me what the user is doing so suppose
user has selected some values based on
that the tool can suggest uh different
ways to transform that particular
Dimension or measure uh so they can play
with the data uh we can show different
states previous and future as well
preview transformation let user decide
on the result data preparation function
to transform the
data responsive experience with the data
as well so once we create a model we can
work from sample and then transform
reped uh on the entire data set so
sample serves as a blue print so we can
refer the sample provided by sap uh on
the sap Antics Cloud platform and that
can be used for our reference
hierarchies in model so this this is
very important when we have hierarchies
like U level based hierarchies where we
can have country state city kind of
hierarchies that we can Define when when
we have organization based on par parent
child hierarchies that is also we can
specify and um while doing the model we
need this uh hierarchies and this is
something which is useful when we wanted
to drill uh on on the charts from one
level to Next Level that kind of
drilling we need uh
hierarchies in this video we will see
basic story design story is a important
part in sap Antics cloud and we should
be able to understand how to create
story what are the different different
aspects of the story uh design
so let's see what is story a story is a
presentation style document that uses
charts visualization text images and
pictograms to describe the data so this
is one of the sample story we can say uh
we'll have a story and the data is for
data modeling and this story will be
having different different pages we can
have one page can have a GE map the
other page can have a uh another chart
or one page can have a j map plus um uh
this type of chart as well and another
page will be having another uh
story or maybe a pie chart or maybe a
bar chart or column chart there are
different different charts which are
available so we can pick it up uh any
chart and then we can create some
stories which will describe the
data so there are two main views one is
data and the story so data is explore
data in real time with Dynamic
visualization and the stories can design
beautiful interactive dashboard for
users so measures dimensions and models
the three components which are also
required for story so it represent
measures represent the quantities that
provide meaning uh to the data example
sales revenue salary amount cost related
information then Dimensions would be uh
provides respective um perspective on
the data uh maybe it's string our
character data which says product ctive
first name last name uh address uh or
any other um Dimension data then model
is using dimensions and measures so it
is combination of the dimensions and
measures we can model the
data there are responsive Pages the
pages which are shown here uh page one
and page two we can create the
responsive pages so it can be POS there
are three types of pages available grid
canvas and responsive so in canvas is
Pixel Perfect report for presentation so
if you wanted to build uh reports for
presentations kind of um then we can can
create this canvas page responsive page
is for flexible dashboards that can that
can be presented on any device or any
screen size maybe laptop um iPhone or
any other mobile devices or laptop so
that is responsive Pages grid page is
just traditional spreadsheet like Excel
spreadsheet kind of data which give full
view of the data so all the data will be
available so it's based on the uh need
suppose one page maybe a canas page
other page maybe responsive page the
third page may be having all the data in
the Excel spreadsheet kind
of so responsive page so this is U this
is this is the uh responsive page which
we can say and this this is having the
device so it is web and laptop so here
also there are some other options of uh
mobile and we can say uh which for which
is it for iPhone or different
different device types as here it can be
specified so this is the way we can
specify then styling of the page is also
we can do there are some this is a chart
styling we can specify background color
actions then border and there are other
formatting properties as well that we
can specify while styling a
page what are the components we can add
on the story page so charts so there are
different different charts comparison
chart Trend chart correlation chart
distribution and indicator the other
other apart from charts are tables so
vertical table horizontal tables map map
contain Z map so that is also we can add
then story filter page filter wiet
filter also we can add so the filter is
also required maybe to filter out the
data on the date range maybe or some
other filters as well that we can give
prompts also we can give uh thresholds
uh we can give some threshold value for
that particular chart or anything means
we can that that is also we can add on
the then link Dimensions which is also
available here uh then uh next is
exploring data protected view of the
data which can be manipulated to
generate charts of your story pages and
we can measures and dimensions are
selected on per page the visual in the
lower P updates in real time so this is
this is what we will see in
practically it is a real time update of
the data once the top down top filters
are get changed automatically uh
the other charts like below charts will
be filter out that we will see
practically bookmarking is another good
feature which is having sap analytics um
so it is bookmarking we can bookm the
story views so big uh create bookmarks
to save different states of the story
what is the need of the bookmarking so
when a viewing story we may want to come
back to the same view of the data every
time or we may want to set up a
different states or scenarios so there
may be some managers who just wanted to
see the sales revenue for particular
state every month so he or she can just
save that particular state of the story
and can uh maybe come every month to
just see that particular State just by
just clicking or just saving that
particular bookmark so that is what it
is very useful we will see practically
how we can do this as well so that it
will be helpful to
understand in this video we will learn
about creating numeric point chart uh so
you can see this is one sample story
which is being created means I will show
you means how to create the story and
then we will see how to create this
point chart uh this kind of point chart
uh which is helpful uh to highlight us
the ma major values or the major uh
account values so let's see is how how
we can create this kind of uh numeric
point chart so let's go to uh in the
create option you will have option of
create
story we already have one sales model
created we will just select that let's
get an access and explore data so let's
let's use the sales model which we have
used uh
earlier now we can see uh this is what
we we have seen practically in last uh
video where we can automatically create
here uh the point charts however um uh
we can this is what how it can show up
here but let's see is how we can build
on our our own numeric point chart so
when we go in the story view uh we have
this option of this page one is the
option where we can uh add different
different uh we can add the a title here
for this page if you want uh let's let's
add numeric point chart from this insert
there are various options available here
so let's add insert chart so here uh
once you have this uh chart added you
will see different options available
here or different charts available so
for now as we wanted to have a numeric
point chart to be added uh
so let's do that uh so once once we have
added it uh we are we need to have uh at
least one measure to be added uh so
let's add one measure so in this add one
measure we can do a create a calculation
so we can by default uh add um
these measures or at least we can create
a calculation so for now we wanted to
see the net revenue as on the numeric
point chart so let's create a
calculations so you can see there are
different options available calculated
measures restricted measures difference
from aggregation and dimension to
measures so we will see one by one uh
for this and examp with the examples uh
so in the calculated measure what we
wanted to we need to create um formula
so which will be uh let's say original
price so once we type it automatically
come up me the fields available in the
model and original price minus discount
is the net sales uh this is the one
formula which we wanted to check uh we
can format it mean just to check any
syntax error or something or logical
error so if it is valid then we can use
this name as um
sales
revenue select this okay so you can see
this measures has been added and it will
be coming up here so this is one thing
there are other things which is uh here
you can this is the title uh there are
other properties available here we can
see various add threshold trails and
cross calculation uh mobile enabled show
hiide if you wanted to have uh subtitle
as well we can do it
so to add subtitle we can uh let's say
this is in USD um so if you wanted to
change that title as well we can change
it from here like just type
it so this
is what to show hi options available
chart details and chart details as well
there are various options available here
which we can select
uh uh then there are um if you do full
screen will just show up in the full
screen mode uh just to make sure that it
is like that we can exit the full screen
as well if you want and we can add some
cross calculation hyperlink Etc as well
as linked analysis another thing which
we will see in detail what is linked
analysis and how we can do it so that we
will see in detail but for the now this
is what how it is now we can add some
three values to it so three shold is
something which is we can say um
highlighting the data with the different
colors so maybe red color shows uh
negative mean revenue or in loss or
green means it is in profit the
businesses so that kind of um level so
it will be highlighting for that
threshold conditional formatting is you
can use so we can add uh thresholds to
for conditional formatting so just click
on this add threshold and once we have
ADD threshold uh we can uh select the
measure here means let's say means we
wanted to uh apply the threshold uh on
this uh net revenue Sals so we can give
some range so this is the options to
give it here so we can say if it is
green color or there are green like
green is then warning then uh critical
fair so if it is okay then we can give
some range uh so let's say me this is
something which is which is
um 400,000 we can say means is greater
than then it is green we can have have
ADD range of warning as well means if it
is Falls below 3,000 or something which
is uh greater uh greater than or equal
to uh 3 3,000 then it is in a warning uh
[Music]
to warning and uh the less than if it is
less than
400,000 uh then and so this is a warning
and another we can add as a critical if
it is less than 3,000 as well then uh
and greater than zero uh then it
is so this is something which is we can
give it here and then once we apply this
uh you will see mean it depends upon
mean the conditions the colors get
changed so this is the way means we can
add it here so I have added a few other
measures as well here like gross margin
and gross margin percentage as well uh
so if you say means this is what I have
done me just similar way gross margin
has been added like net sales revenue
but this is just a measure taken and
then gross margin uh percentage is one
thing which is I have uh created which
is uh like this uh which is sales Mar uh
gross gross margin divided by the net
sales revenue which is and uh this is
what uh the percentage has been
calculated for this gross margin and uh
there are some other in The Styling uh
you can give um uh the formatting or the
scaling that uh have given here uh for
number format so if if you say in the
number so let net sales revenue I have
made it as thousand and then um in the
scale format we can choose it's km or
Bon for thousand million billion like
this or we can have it like so suppose
if I wanted to change it it will show
like this so this is how I have done it
here uh we can uh select some other
options show currency and show um unit
if you want means that is what means it
is there means if you want um and uh
there are some other like decimal places
as well we can select how many decimal
places we wanted to uh have the signs as
well we can display plus or minus or in
the bracket so that is what there are
some other formatting like format uh
like what is all text formatting what is
what the uh chart title subtitle and all
those things should look like so let's
say me I wanted to uh chart title make
it as aial and
size is 12 it is like I want to make it
as
20 and I wanted to make it as bold as
well so that is we can do it I wanted to
make it color is something
different so this way we can uh do it uh
this formatting for all of the measures
so you can say say uh what are the
calculat measures or the direct measures
we have taken we can do a formatting of
it uh we can do bordering as well so it
is given here what is the B borders
which which we can give all the borders
so I have selected this the style which
type of style we want it to have uh so
we can choose it the Border color as
well we can choose it for for light line
width as so this is a corner radius so
if you don't make it it will be square
cor um like or else means it will be
just changing so these are some of the
things border are not supp for mobile
devices so when it views in the mobile
so it is not possible to uh view the
borders in the mobiles so this is one
thing we need to uh
remember so this is uh we have done all
this gross margin gross margin
percentage and others like net sales
revenue for uh so we can view this uh we
will take it forward we will build other
chart charts and all those things uh
with this um uh in the next videos in
this video we will see about the line
chart uh continuing to our creating
story for different components the first
component we have seen about the numeric
chart in the previous video now let's
see is how to add line chart and various
properties of the line chart uh what are
the different things which we can do
with line charts to add line chart just
click on this insert uh charts option
here uh you can uh see uh there are
different charts available so we will
select from this as line chart
first and once we select this line chart
we need to specify at least Y AIS or
right right or left Y axis so the first
thing is uh to select the measures so
here we will see gross margin is the one
thing which is we wanted to see right
now we will not take me suppose we do
wanted to see some other measures as
well so sales revenue or quantity kind
other measures that we can select it
here but for now we just just select a
gross margin here uh add Dimension is
which we will select we there are
different different but for now which is
very meaningful means we can see a date
wise uh gross margin for uh which which
uh which can be selected as for for the
dimensions this is all that for now me
when we select this is it will just have
option automatically up drilling down as
well so different different uh years uh
and if if you wanted to go up we can uh
go to the upper level as well from here
when we click on that uh there is when
we say Dimensions we can uh do our own
filtering of the data with the help of
this filter uh uh options which is uh
filter by member filter by uh filter by
member is just a selection uh of the
years and quarters filter by range is
about the particular time period and
then we can select current
year uh
basically to for the specific one so
let's say me let's see filter by member
first one so for now means we have
different different years that we can
select U uh however we can also select
for some specific year we wanted to see
the four quarter uh so you can see it
here and there are some other options
which is allow Vios to modify selection
generally uh we should be allowing the
users to modify the selection mean it
just filtering So based on the filters
mean the users can uh choose their
should not allow viewers to delete the
filter hide in control panels uh so the
existing filters we should be keeping
that uh there is multiple selection or
single selection so it can be possible
that multiple values can be selected
over the chart so once you click on this
okay now you can see this chart has been
created you can see this uh year 2014
let's do so uh once we have this uh we
can use different different uh options
uh to be selected here uh which is uh
formatting and all those things so
suppose this is uh line uh so you can
see this is the year 2013 this is year
14 which is for each quarter so suppose
we if you wanted to go drill down as
well we can go with the with that
particular year and for each year it has
uh January to February so as this is the
drillable or this is a hierarchy
component and that's why this drilling
is possible here on this chart the
drilling is possible we can go again uh
I mean it's it's year and quarter um um
hierarchy Set uh basically if it is year
quarter month or day and then it we can
go to the uh lowest level of the
hierarchy which is day as well so that
is also possible uh we can when we
select this line uh you can see there is
a styling option here we and where we
can select uh different uh formatting
options which is uh data point so
suppose this data point is nothing but
the points which are shown up here uh we
can give different colors uh to this
suppose I wanted to show uh this data
points in a different color uh this
formatting and all those things we can
specify with all these things uh the
formatting uh we can say me if it is
thousand million or billion for now
let's say select is a, um so when we
select thousand it will come as
automatically here in, so whatever the
figure it is showing is here earlier it
was a complete figure of 65,000 some
7500 something so that has been changed
in Thousand so it has been like 65,000
uh 6575 so this figure is in Thousand so
this we can give um uh then scale
formatting we can specify thousand
million uh again same formatting which
we can do
uh Legions so what are the legions we
are having we can have it above or below
chart so suppose we want to have it uh
the legion uh so that can be possible to
uh appear here this uh three uh let's do
some full screen this so that it will be
helpful for our understanding uh now uh
we can see there are different
properties available here uh if you
click on this uh you can actually sort
by
uh then gross margin and uh there are
other options as well here uh by sort
like earliest to latest so this is also
we can uh do it or we can uh sort in uh
based on the latest to
earliest so you can see this date has
formatting has changed 2015 then to4 and
13 then uh now we can uh select some
other properties which is ranking so we
can select a top five ranking uh so this
is also one so what is the top five
values that it is possible to see it
here as well uh we can select just
bottom f as well so this gets changed
now
um we don't want to select this so I'm
just rting it on the changes now uh
there are some other proper properties
which is compared to which is previous
period or previous year or previous
quarter so when we select previous
period it will show the difference
between the uh see uh what is the
difference between this value and this
so minus uh this is the minus so you can
see how it has been compared over the
previous when we apply this filter you
can see this variance as well here which
is with the previous period this this
way we can do the comparison with the
previous year previous quarter and if
you select this open variance pel as
well uh then also it is possible to see
what are the variance and all those
things so we suppose we have something
some values to be compared that we can
give it here uh so which is all measures
or some measures which we are having and
to which it is to be compared so that we
can uh give it here uh for for
this now uh let's go back uh to now uh
now coming to the other properties of
this chart see uh add smart Insight so
this is also very powerful U feature
which is available with the CP antic
Cloud uh when we say artmart Insight it
will show up the values uh means when we
run it so like see uh so basically uh
when uh when we uh open this chart it
will show the smart inside for gross
margin for 2003 is the top top
contributor so as you see is from this
uh actually it will use the antics
technology and based on that it it will
suggest different different uh important
or critical um data from this analysis
so this is very powerful uh so which
will be helpful for the business users
to take the decisions faster we can add
some reference line as well suppose we
have some reference line of
like 50,000 so this is this is one uh
Benchmark we wanted to set and based on
that means it is helpful so this is we
can say it's
a reference range so this is the
reference range uh which which is there
and the different things so there are
different things which we can do with
this reference range and it is helpful
uh to measure the performance of the
particular business how it is performing
mean whether it is going good in terms
of year-wise data or quarter wise data
or it is having some issues with the
business data now you can see there are
some other options available as well
mobile end is fine then we can say
adding forecast as well automatic
forecast we can add there is one more
about the reference line which is fixed
and uh dynamic as well so we can give
some reference uh to this fixed in fixed
where we can specify some specific value
uh like 50,000 or something as a
reference value and in Dynamic actually
we can select the measure which is
coming from the database or the model so
that range we can give it here and uh
its aggregation whether it is maximum or
minimum that we can uh
select and label also we can uh give it
the next point is to add uh conditional
formatting or a threshold values so that
we can format our line chart as per as
for the values which is given here to do
this we can just clear select here add
Dimension or threshold and from here we
can select the d uh measures which is
already there we have created a
conditional formatting so you can see me
based on this conditional formatting uh
this points has been changed uh the
colors has been changed because we have
already created um conditional
formatting for gross margin for the
numeric point chart uh so that is uh it
has taken we can edit the ranges so edit
edit range means it will be uh the one
which is here uh we can uh suppose uh we
can select this is uh 65,000 or
something uh let's say six
so this way if you do this um this will
uh show the various conditional
formatting results so you can see uh the
green ones are okay the orange ones are
warning and the critical ones so you can
see the color has been
changed for for this di thresholds so
this is one thing which we can do and
the tool tip is also it will show up me
for which it is threshold is gross
marging what is this stra uh State like
uh okay or uh warning or critical after
that means we will see what is trailing
uh so there is one more option of having
add traes so this is traes is one option
which is available where we can divide
our chart to different different
divisions like uh if you say based on
the dimensions available we can divide
our chart so suppose we wanted to uh
divide this chart on the straight part
so we can do this by using this one so
you can see this is for California
Nevada and Oran so you can see different
different charts available for this uh
uh state wise uh basically uh if you
wanted to uh change this uh instead of
chart uh we can do uh select some other
um Dimensions as well which will be
helpful to see let's do it on a city So
based on because there will be multiple
cities you can see there are different
different charts are getting created and
uh this is what how it it looks like so
this is a very good uh point to as well
uh to create it uh different uh charts
for different different cities and if
that is something which is needed for uh
different date ranges that is also we
can uh do it let's remove it I don't
want to uh make it as for state wise or
city wise distribution so I'm just
removing this traes so when this is
needed we can uh do this uh so I'm just
uh now this this is what we have done
till now miss with this dashboard and uh
uh we wanted to uh select like
this for now uh this is what means we do
have a numeric point chart for Sal net
sales revenue and gross margin and we
have gross margin line chart as well uh
at the moment let's learn about stor
telling visualization basic calculation
and formatting uh it is important
understand what are the things we which
we can do while we create the stories
for our
applications so what is story basically
uh Story how uh this is one sample uh
story which is given on the right side
of this where we can see different
different charts and uh different um you
can see some of the range filters date
range filters some of the options
available here so that user can select
any of the product and then they can see
their respective uh any details here so
this is something which is uh nothing
but a story and how this story can be
created there are different uh ways to
create we can create U choose some
custom templates provided by SA or we
can create our own um templates directly
or we can just start our own design as
well uh so that we will see practically
as well how to create
it now when we uh say story structure or
what is the
defining of story structure we need to
understand means um uh three pages which
is canvas grid and responsive Pages we
have already seen this in the previous
videos where we have seen what is canvas
what is grid and what is responsive page
so we need to use one of them to make um
the story run a smart Discovery for data
analysis we can do this by using uh
smart Discovery option and um then how
to uh create stories or what are the
design to choose so we can either create
a new design or we can uh use the
templates provided by sap or the
templates customized by our business so
that is also we can
do so when we say creating a
visualizations there are different
different components which are available
charts tables maps and all these valory
picture pictogram all of these
components are very useful and we need
to understand theun of each and every
component so that it will be helpful to
build our powerful
visualizations while using it as well we
need to understand means how to use them
or how to make most most of it uh so
that our visualizations are very uh
powerful or user friendly so we need to
first we need to select the choose
direction or importance of visualization
so we need to see means what we need to
see show on the top or what we wanted to
show on the bottom or in the the middle
or um like that uh we need to make it
user friendly so that it is a simple
reading direction we need to follow the
format means um left to right or kind of
reading format then logical grouping uh
order where where we need to place the
component so it should be located next
to each other so that it it is easily
readable to the user so this is what we
need to um make sure that our
visualizations are placed uh correctly
on the on the
storage then we will see some of the uh
data preparation while we do data
preparation like model creation uh when
we acquire data then uh there are two
types of aggregation uh standard
aggregation and exception aggregation so
standard aggregation and exception
aggregations are very important to
understand means so standard aggregation
are the aggregation which are uh defined
at the data source level or from the
database or and the exception
aggregation are defined at the model
level in the sap
Antics so here is one example which says
some of this so this is standard
aggregation coming from the U database
as a expected revenue and uh which is
predefined in the data source of the
data model while exception aggregation
is something which is not part of the
data source but uh it is it is defined
in the model so exception aggregation
can be applied from a model or a story
and this is one of the the average
function which is here used which says
which is a exception aggregation
applied how to add exception aggregation
so that we will see practically how to
add and these are some of the exception
aggregation types which which are like
this sum in Max average first last as
well so that um we will see this
practically how to use this so that it
will be helpful for to understand all
this with the
examples in this video we will learn
about creating bar chart or column chart
and then we will also see how to create
a stacked bar column chart as well and
uh in the charts how to drill uh up and
drill down uh in the chart so that also
we will see in this uh video we do have
already our story created which is
having a numeric point chart and the
line chart which we already created in
our previous videos so continuing to
that story only we will be adding a um
chat so let's edit this in the designer
mode we can just add chart so insert
chart from here and then we can select
first is bar or column chart that we are
going to see so in this bar or column
chart we will see gross margin for um
each product by state so what is the
gross margin so that we will see we will
see uh chart orientation we will see uh
set as horizontal only uh the first
thing is we need to add a measure so the
measure will be gross margin percentage
that's what we are going to take and
then Dimension will be product because
for product only we need to find the
cross margin and then um the color will
be also means we need to select because
or the dimension measure so that we can
see uh for each state or location we
wanted to uh see so let's add this state
as
colored here uh this is how it is now
uh now we can enable Legion as well here
just to show the legion so that it will
be helpful to see means you can
see this
and how it looks like right now we have
this um colors so we can switch this
colors as well if you want means based
on these colors we can uh select
different colors if you feel means we
wanted to select um so you can see for
each state like California newk and oron
we can see this uh product how it is
performed so now uh there is a drilling
uh also available here if you click on
this uh we can see uh the drill drill
options here if you click on this it it
goes to that particular uh State and for
that particular product so we can see
drill down and drill up we can do it hit
from here uh the drill drill set as for
level one level two as well so let's say
we can can go to up to level two as well
from here as well so this is the default
one which is available here so this is a
drilling uh we can do with uh this uh
column uh chart so we should name
this what is
gross margin percentage for each product
by
State this is the one uh question which
is uh maybe business users we wanted to
see for each product what is the gross
margin percentage now the next point is
about adding stacked bar column chart
where we wanted to see how each product
has performed over period of time so
let's add a chart here uh in this we
will add uh stacked bar column chart and
uh we will keep its U orientation as
vertical and we will select uh net sales
revenue as we wanted to see the
performance of the product so uh net
sales revenue is the one um measure we
are going to select and dimension we
will see as we wanted to see over the
period select the date uh as the field
and then color will be we will be sing
the selecting the product because based
on the product only we wanted to see how
for each year how it has been performed
and so you can see me now this is
showing like this so we can show the
legions here so that it will be helpful
to identify it we let's do a full screen
as well now you can see for each year
this is for all year we can uh see that
hierarchy or drilling is enabled here
you can just go by date or product so
there are two options available by which
date or product you wanted to go to the
drills by using this we can go to uh
date again in the detail you can see uh
for quarter one uh quarter 2 quarter
three quarter 4 for each year for which
uh uh which product has performed better
so you can see this orange color is uh
perform better we can go more in detail
uh to see how uh this has been performed
in the that particular quarter and which
month is having highest uh sales so here
you can see the August month is and by
using this August month data we can see
why this has been uh having highest
sales revenue maybe some there are some
different different um scenarios or
business situations which uh pop the
higher revenue for that particular
product in that duration and why the
July and September is having less uh
data for that particular sales so that
uh that this values can be uh can be
drilled we can go in August month which
product has performed over better so in
the August month we can see this is one
thing which is orange with pulp is
perform well in this we can uh go drill
up again now with the date
we can go again with the
date and for this
year so we can say means by product we
can show so suppose if you wanted for
this year we wanted to see now we can go
to directly uh drilling on uh product as
well instead of data as well so for 2013
which is the uh product so this is also
it is able to show up so we can give
some dat is what is how is the product
has performed over the period of time so
this is one thing which is wanted to see
business managers wanted to see the
performance of the particular uh product
over year month-wise and quarter wise as
well so that we can uh set up with this
stack bar column so it is very useful to
see the data in this way and different
different colors we can select different
colors from here and there are some
other things which we can do this as
well to just see useful in this video we
will learn about creating calcul
measures with the input controls and
also creating restricted measures
calculated measures so let's try to
create one chart uh this simple bar
chart I'm taking uh which is selecting
as a horizontal let's say and adding a
original sales price as a d measure and
I'm adding a dimension of the product so
just wanted to see a product original
price and here we can add a new
calculation uh measure which will use
incremental sales for that particular
measure do that uh let's add add
measures and in this uh instead of
selecting any uh available one create
calculation and in this uh we can uh
select this is a calculated uh measure
and incremental uh
cells so this is the name for this U
calculated measure we are going to
select new input control so input
control act as a variable uh and which
can be used to calculate the measure
values or to just change the values
without modifying the underlying data in
the model so create uh model we can give
uh some name to uh this as incremental
Factor we can say and we can select
either existing Dimension suppose we can
select any other dimension which we
wanted to multiply with the original
sales price uh something we need to
divide or something some that that also
we can do with this existing Dimension
uh model and then uh we can select
different different uh Dimensions from
it but for now the other way is to
create the static where we can just give
some static values data type we can
select as number and then uh we can say
we can select by range suppose we wanted
to give some range then we can give
minimum and maximum range and we can uh
increment by whatever number we wanted
to increment uh the other one is to add
a select by member we can just give some
like let's say 2.5 comma
5 comma 10 so this is something which is
we wanted to give uh we can give
multiple selection but in this case as
we just wanted to uh increment by this
uh single uh incremental Factor we will
select as a single selection because
this will affect because otherwise we
need to select all this and that is not
going to be valid here now I have
selected uh this input values and I'm
clicking on okay now you can see
incremental Factor uh is one input
control has been created so that is one
kind of variable we can say now let's
add this original price sales price and
we will just incre uh multiply that with
the incremental Factor so this is what
we we are going to do we'll just verify
this formula whether it is valid or not
and just create click on okay now you
can see this chart has been changed now
the initial uh Blue Line uh chart is
about uh the original sales spr and then
the orange one is
incremental now we can uh see the
formula as well incremental sales is one
formula which is here uh you can see uh
if you do multiply uh do select five as
incremental then this value gets changed
whatever the orange one it gets changed
so uh it is like first is 34 is the
original 34682 is the original sales
price it will be multiplied by five now
now if you select uh the 10 then it will
get multiplied by
10 So based on this we can select it or
else we can just select 3.2 or 2.5 which
is just getting multiplied with that so
once we select this this original price
gets change original price will be same
but the incremental sales uh can be uh
changed based on this selection so users
can uh select this incremental sales Me
Maybe This is required for their
analysis how the sales can be improved
for that particular product
and may maybe they can give the target
to their sales people so that they can
see this is what we need to have the
incremental sales means Maybe by 2.5% or
maybe 5% or maybe 10% kind of so that
kind of incremental sales they can just
see here on the this this is what we can
uh do with this calculated measures with
the in uh input
controls now the next point is about the
creating restricted measures the
restricted measures are just one kind of
filter to uh the charts uh which we can
uh create and Suppose there is a
requirement that some charts just wanted
to filter out on some of the values of
some of the dimensions so then we can uh
select this restricted measures to do
this just go back to the charts measures
add measures option and in here we will
select create calculation and uh in this
we will select restricted measures not
the calculated measure and we will see
let's say me this charts we just wanted
to see for
California uh so here we can uh select
original uh sales price and this is just
to be selected for um let's say uh
location or maybe state wise so it it it
then we can select the values uh so we
have the select by member so in this we
will see uh this the state values which
which are there and based on that
suppose we just wanted to filter out for
C California then we will select that uh
we can add another dimension as well me
if there are some other dimensions we
wanted to filter out so this is the way
we create restricted measures now once
we create the restricted measures you
can see a new uh green um bar has and
come here with the California state
means for this particular so you can see
means wherever so for these juices and
others there is no sales for this uh in
the California that's why it is not
shown up here if there is a data then it
will show up so this is how we can
create the we can create the restricted
measure now the third type of
calculation is the difference from we
have already created one chart which
which is giving gross margin percentage
for each product by state now we will
just duplicate this chart and we will
see uh the difference uh with the
previous year so to do this just to copy
uh and paste this chart uh we can see
this um is created here we can see uh to
create a new calculation again we will
go to add
measure and in this again we will see
create calculation here uh instead of
calculated measure or restricted measure
we will see a third type of calculation
type which is difference from and we
will give this cross margin
percentage that we can select uh we will
select the gross margin as the measure
which is here the time Dimension will be
our date Dimension because we are going
to compare with the
periods uh now when we select a minus B
is the two things which we need to
consider so the we need to select the
first uh um time which is uh current
date or maybe select Me by member so we
will select select members so we wanted
to compare with the uh 2014 to the
previous year so we will select this uh
the previous one uh 2014 here and uh to
previous to end period whether uh we
wanted to compare with the previous one
year or previous two year or previous 3
years so whatever value it may be have
or whatever the values we wanted to
verify uh compare that we can select it
here now set no to data as zero so this
is fine means when there is no data then
we can say as no zero calculate as
percentage so calculate as percentage
when we select then we need to divide it
by some other values so we will select
it here uh with the compare value or to
the value so whatever the value which is
2014 divid by 2013 that's what the value
we can select uh to just create this now
once we have created it uh just click on
okay now uh we can uh see this uh which
is here let's do this full screen so
that we can see what is the difference
now when we say you can see this is the
for 20134 what is the this is the
previous year and this is the current
year difference so you can see uh this
compare from 20134 California and NADA
this three states it is showing
different different here as you can see
uh this is the original one you can see
this colors the higher and the
difference one is are shown here which
is shown up here the legion shows the
difference so for uh this is for 20134
for California California it has
positive difference and for other two it
has for NADA for Nevada it has minus
difference and for Oregon State also it
has difference so this is how it is can
create difference from calc calculation
type in this video that's what we have
covered we have covered creating
calculat measures with the input control
then we have covered about the
restricted measure creating restricted
me measure with the example and now we
have saw about creating difference from
uh calculation uh type as well in this
video we will learn about various key
performance indicators then page filters
reference lines uh story filters and how
we can apply various key key performance
indicators so basically key performance
indicator indicators are very important
to understand because it is something
which is a business uh objective which
are set when the business is being run
business managers or the top management
people will see how the business is
performing and they will man monitor the
uh business using the key performance
indicators that is kpi performance is
not meeting the criteria about of the
kpis then the system May throw some
alerts to the uh business so that they
will uh they can take the necessary
actions now uh to see first we will see
how to create a bullet chart which is
showing the different different um kpi
like key performance indicator so to do
this just add bullet chart from here um
so we can say uh indicator this this is
a chart type which is we are going to
select one is bullet
and from here we uh we will add first as
a gross margin uh as one of the
measure and it it needs state or
location which is
uh and the color color will be based on
the product what we are having the
threshold value which has we have
created which is for gross margin so
this gross margin um which is one option
we have created already uh as a
threshold or conditional formatting
where we already set some values which
is number range and uh which which has
these values which we have set and based
on this it will highlight whether it is
okay uh whether it is a warning or
critical uh things when when we open
this uh let's do this a full screen so
now you can see where uh the business
values stand so this is the um line
which is there which says uh this for
California uh this is the gross margin
which is which is falling in critical
for Nevada we can see it is uh in the
warning things and also for Oregon as
well it is so when we when we Mouse over
on it you can see gross margin is 55,000
some 140 and then what is the threshold
uh threshold range and what is the
status so it will show up as warning as
well this way we can create the bullet
charts which will suggest uh the
business how the business is going on
and based on this the business users can
uh take decisions then now the next uh
thing is about creating a reference line
uh reference lines is one thing where uh
we can set some uh references to the
values we are getting from the charts so
maybe average reference values or or
maximum or minimum re reference value so
to do this we will add one more chart
here uh just for U creating of this uh
so let's do a chart adding um which is a
column chart we can say and um
horizontal we will say um again a gross
margin or gross margin we will select
and gross margin was once we have
selected um we will
uh select the dimension as um location
or
state so that it will come like this now
once we have this we can set uh this um
we can select the dimension as well uh
let's say a
product now uh we can we need to add a
reference lines to do this reference
line we we'll just go to this uh option
here and select add reference line from
here now there are two types of
reference lines which is one is fixed
and um the other one is dynamic so try
to uh use uh fix one let's say means we
have we are setting 100 um million uh
value which is there as a reference and
uh we will say this is an average as a
label uh you can see this is we can
select some colors to the lines as well
so let's say this is uh label color and
line color as well
so this is a fixed uh fixed value and
suppose um what happens when we use a
fixed reference line uh when we drill
down on this
value the average value will remain same
it is 100 million it is not going to
change so this is a drawback we can say
means uh when we wanted to use a
reference line uh so uh when whenever it
is necessary means we can we should
using Dynamic uh reference line which is
here now let's try to use this uh
reference value as a
dynamic now when in Dynamic we can just
directly select our measures and uh
based on that means we can uh select so
gross margin is average so whatever the
measures we have taken uh it
automatically calculate the average uh
we can see actuals is the version means
based on the actual values the average
should be calculate calculated so
maximum and minimum reference we can can
use it here U but basically average is
the reference we should be using uh the
other things uh is average is the label
and once we apply this now the
difference is when we apply this Dynamic
reference line uh when we click on
this uh or when we drill down on this
any of the
product the average uh gets changed so
this is the reference for this now um
when we go in the up level you can see
reference value is
39,7 32 but when we go down to the next
level the average changes to whatever
the value it is having Suppose there are
more than three or four categories in
this product then uh based on that three
or four product categories the average
will be calculated and it will be
displayed so this will be a dynamic and
this is what it should be I think uh we
should be using uh when we wanted to use
uh Dynamic uh reference lines now uh
next point is we should be using is
about about the story filters and the
page filters so uh story filters
actually apply to the uh particular um
component or chart while page filter
will be applying for the complete uh
page filter so to do this story filter
whenever we have the any any of the
chart we can just write uh click on here
here or Mouse click on here you can see
their filter gets applied so filter on
selected data point so when when we
select this it automatically filter out
on that particular product and we can
remove this filter from here as well uh
so this way this is a story filter which
is actually U chart filter we can say
which is applied here now there is
another uh filter which is uh for this
particular page filter all the page
filter uh all the page components will
be filter out based on that so for that
what we can do we can add input control
from here and from this we can select uh
the measures or the dimensions on which
we wanted to uh select date range is
date is one dimension which we have
based on that we wanted to so filter by
member or filter by range so when we say
filter by range we can filter it from
here with the years um and the other
other is filter by so the filter by
range is one thing which is based on the
dynamic or fixed one so Dynamic will be
basically whatever the range it is
having it it will be displayed there
based on the values which
are for for a particular duration fixed
fixed will be whatever the values right
now it is having it will take like this
uh so 2013 201 2016 uh suppose we don't
have the data then we can say for three
these three years only we wanted to see
hierarchy also we need to specify year
quarter month Suppose there is some
other hierarchy we wanted to choose we
can choose it from here year month only
if you don't want to go to quarter level
as well now the range is granity from
here it will start from 2013 to 14 uh
that's what we can uh select new Range
also we can add it here where we can
specify quarter wise uh year quarter uh
month filter as well now our um now
allow you viewers to modify the
selection this is fine means it should
be users can uh modify the
selections uh users can select multiple
selection or single selection uh that we
can select and click okay now here once
we click on here uh you can see that
page filter is applied here let me let
me move this to here you can see this is
the filter which is used uh or it is
getting displayed like this and from
this we can select like I mean suppose
we just wanted to select the data for
one uh year only then uh uh this this uh
can be done from here
and um or from this drop down as well
you can select So based on this filter
uh the data gets changed and all the all
the components all the charts when we
use this date filter uh we can um get it
applied on all the chart components so
which is very useful uh so this is a
page page filter uh which can be used
like
this uh that's it from this video I hope
you have understood this components we
have covered about the bullet blet chart
then reference line then story filter
page filters as well this is our story
which we have created uh using the
different different components uh and
all the videos which we have seen as in
previous to this
video covers most all the Practical uh
things what how we have implemented this
uh different different charts we have
started with the numic uh numeric chart
then line chart then we have seen stack
bar chart as well column as well then
uh we have seen the column bar chart uh
with with its different calculation type
like C calculated measures restricted
measures then difference from measures
and how to use that uh then we have also
seen the reference line where we have
seen what is fixed reference line and
dynamic reference line then we have seen
the input controls which is the DAT
range filter here where we can apply the
date range filter for this also we have
seen the buet bullet chart for for
having this kind of kpi indicator how
the business is performing uh so it is
useful uh then we have also seen uh
different uh components or different uh
features like linked analysis adding
page filter or adding uh story filters
or chart filters so these all we have
covered till now and we will continue to
uh improve this story with the new uh
features which s is having and like GE
map so we will see that in next video so
please watch my videos for the next uh
understanding I have all given the links
for this video description for all these
components uh in this so you can go
through this uh one by one if you have
missed that in this video we will learn
about the data integration with sap bw4
Hana and sapes to that sap analytics
Cloud there are some basic concepts we
will try to understand in this video and
uh practically we will see how this can
be use uh used or implemented so let's
see me what are the advantage of thep
bw4 Hana uh so it is an investment uh we
can leverage the investment into SP BW
and provide the users with the Antics
Beyond data discy as so we can directly
consume BW data without data replication
so there is no data refresh or data
replication needed when we can connect
to thep BW data BW for Hana we can
utilize the native BW query Concepts to
get most about out of your data we can
use uh reuse the existing authorization
concepts for data level security so
whatever the security which is an
applied at the B for Hana site that can
same be applied at the SCP antic Cloud
we can continue establish best practices
so what are the best practices used at
sbw for Hana for views and all those
things query design life cycle
management data level authorization that
all can be used in scps
Cloud so what are the connectivity
features
or the functionality we can say means
which is direct secure and simple so
this is one um basic and like full thing
we can have we can connect directly um
to BW queries or generated Han views in
our on premise sapbw systems and once we
connect there is no additional modeling
is required we just need to connect to
to the sap Hana views or the scbw
queries and no data replication in the
SCP Antics Cloud as well as it will
happen on Real Time with thep Hana data
remains behind your corporate firewall
when running queries and displaying
results no authorization replication
needed as PBW authorizations are fully
respected uh end to endend integration
is another feature which is ability to
access SCP BW and SCP Han features that
cannot be accessed through standard
query interface so some of the query
interfaces like SQL or um multiple
Dimensions queries so they cannot
directly access some of the features
from sapbw but sap ant can do
it use of unique based in class query
interface to SAP BW and sap Han engines
that is also possible query interface is
continuously enounced alongside sbw and
Han engine
enhancments so in summary what are the
topics we what are the points we can
consider chart to chart um filtering uh
create filters or drill through
hierarchal data in one chart we can use
B BW
variable um prompt as
announcements BW variant personalization
consumption BW structures we can use BW
structures we can have need doable
connections integation with the BW query
uh techniques and parallel execution of
the BW queries that will be helpful for
the performance optimization of the
analysis applications integrating with
sap Universe when we say in sap
universes which is sap business objects
universes which are created in the
information design tool or the universe
designer so we have to use live data
connections so when we use live
connections there data no data will be
stored in the cloud or it is it is on
demand connection so all the data will
be uh retriev when it is needed from the
app applications a replicative data
input connection data will be stored in
the cloud and upd within interval so you
can see me um there are two ways we can
connect to the sap and data universes
one is live data and data input so when
we say data input uh connection we need
to have SCP Cloud connector sacp Cloud
connector and sap analytics Cloud agent
two main additional components we need
here to connect to when we use live data
connections it is just a browser or and
scpb data connect on BI platform from
launch pad we can use that and and just
connect to that sap inis so when we say
requirement of the live connections and
the data in uh data import then we see
um this is SCP Cloud connected andp
Antics Cloud agent that's what it is
shown here in the in this diagram as
well and for live connection we can just
need to set the some of the bo
properties uh which we should have this
connection uh of the bo. temporary
document folder which holds the name of
the folder that is created inside each
user favorite folder when they consum
live data connections so we will see
this practically um with how to
configure this and how to connect to the
different
universes in this video we will see
linked analysis and examine data
functionality of the sap Antics Cloud uh
these are the two important Concepts
which we should be able to understand
and we will see this practically how to
implement this firstly what is linked
analysis so linked analysis means um we
have already seen story filter or chart
filter or page filter where we are
applying the filters on different charts
and or the entire page uh in our
previous videos however when we say
about the linked analysis uh uh that
means whenever we do any interaction
suppose we are doing interaction on this
chart as drilled down on this chart then
this chart is getting filtered out or
what it is just drilled out but this
interaction is not impacting any other
component or any other chart in this
story so this is an interact ction we
can make use of linked analysis
functionality where we can uh implement
this interactions whatever the
interactions we are doing on this chart
can affect the data of other charts uh
we can do for all the charts all the
components of the chart page or we can
do for a specific chart as well so let's
see how to do this now uh when we say
linked analysis so I'm just selecting
this chart so on this chart suppose I'm
doing some
interactions then I wanted to affect the
other all the components of these
charts so to do this uh you can go to
this options here uh where you have more
action option here you can select linked
analysis once you selected uh then it
shows interactions applied to only this
widget or all widgets in the story so
for now I'm just selecting all wigets in
the story uh we can um me if there are
multiple Pages the pages I'm saying this
is one page then there is other pages
also we can add and uh this is also
possible means all the pages that means
all wigets in the story all wigets on
this page only this page but not to
other page or only selected wigets so
for now let's see means I'm just
selecting all wigets in the story and
I'm selecting apply and when we say uh
view now I'm going to interact with this
uh uh chart which I have just applied
the linked analysis when I say uh linked
analysis I uh I clicking on here I'm
just drilling down on this chart so you
can see the all the points all the
visits on this story has been affected
and it is showing net sales revenue how
much net sales revenue for this
particular um product then this line
chart has also um reflected this
particular U bullet chart has been also
changed this particular uh chart has
been also changed and basically if this
uh this this is something uh which is uh
different chart which is not uh feasible
to display that's why it is showing that
no data is available for that this way
we can uh do it now let's go back and
let's try to apply uh this interactions
linked analysis to only to specific
um visit now let's say all visit on this
page so that is that will affect only
selected V vets then we can say uh we
can say automatically connect newly
created filter data on on data point
selection as well or we can say mean
gross margin or gross margin percentage
for other so this is first one numeric
point chart let's say I'm wanted to add
this only to uh this um line chart which
is gross margin per de and I'm just app
playing
here and when we view this we can see
means uh now no other vets or no other
chart should be affected only uh this
one uh so if I'm going toct uh going
up going down you can see this this is
getting changed this line chart only no
other component so you can see
everything is uh the same way so when we
wanted to interact with other uh
components so this is very useful
feature I I would say as a linked
analysis where uh one one chart can
affect the other chart data to be
displayed in a such a way that means it
is useful for the business now the
second point which I wanted to cover in
this video is about the data examine so
suppose I wanted to uh I wanted to
examine um this data so whatever the
data which is displaying on this chart I
wanted to uh see where it's model data
means what is the data behind that chart
so we can do that just select this chart
and there there is an option of examine
in display when we select on this
examine you can see the data is getting
displayed in a Excel spreadsheet kind of
view where it shows uh the actual data
in the database so Suppose there is
something which is we wanted to validate
whether the data is displayed on the
data uh on the visualization stories
whether it is correct or not or it is
accurate uh to that in the database
models so that way we can do this
examine functionality when we wanted to
hide we just click on this that's it
from this video I hope you have
understood these two points um in this
video we will see analytic applications
one of the powerful feature again from
sap analytics Cloud apart from storage
or digital boardroom or visualization
this is one another component or feature
which is available with sap Antics uh
Cloud that we will see some of the basic
concepts how to create that so what is
sap antic application which is a
document that can contain visualization
such as tables charts uh and filters to
allow navigation and Analysis of data so
why what is difference of um antic
application than that of storage and all
those things so it can personalize the
visualization and interaction behaviors
of the uh elements according to the user
requirement so there are some specific
requirements uh from the business so
that can be achieved using the antic
applications only means we can write
some scripting applications some script
code various
um Event Event driven application uh
code as well that we can do it in uh
this antic application and these are
created and consumed in sap Antics Cloud
only so how to create this so in sap
Antics Cloud when we open this we have
this create analytic application option
so apart from story Model you can say we
have another option of antic
applications when we click on this uh we
get in a screen where we can see
different different component available
so we do have this different components
on the left side which says script
variable script objects we can have o
data services and there are so many
things which we can do uh and um that to
be in a scripting um code as well uh the
device on on which device it can be seen
that Al we can specify it maybe laptop
iPod iPod Pro iPhone as well uh then
iPhone x as well so there are different
different devices which where this
application can be viewed and and
similarly we can uh we can get an view
of that particular uh application how it
will look into that there are some other
options where insert we can chart insert
tables and there are different options
like drop- down filter list box
um checkpoint checkbox option list kind
of things buttons there are various
components available we will be seeing
that practically uh how this uh can be
done this is very powerful I think means
when we write something script or code
uh to build different different
applications so this would be very
helpful so we will see the this as well
in this video we will learn about
linking two different models in the
story and how this two different models
data can be used to display the data on
the chart so we will see how to create a
scatter plot chart based on two
different models use Link Dimensions
functional functionality which where we
will will see different link type or
join types means how the data can be
joined and then it can be used so now
let's see mean how we can create there
is an option to uh link Dimensions where
we can see link Dimensions option here
when we click on link
Dimension we will get an option to uh
two select two models the first one is
here we can say I wanted to take plan
event sample model and then uh the next
one is B on juice so here we will see
plan event sample is one thing which is
we are going to take a city and we join
with the location because both of the
columns will have similar kind of data
so you can see the sample here provided
it it shows the data of the city names
and in the location as well you can see
here on the best on choose model you can
see city names
as if there are any errors between the
data then it will show up here means if
there are anything means the joints or
the linking is not Val then it can show
up here we can add more Dimensions as
well to a link here we can select other
and we can just drag it we can select
different uh Dimensions now once we are
done with this linking to Dimension just
click on set and then we can see means
this it will show up means from plan
event sample City the dimension and best
on use sample model location is the
dimension just click on done once we are
done with this means we want wanted to
see how we can uh use this to display
the data in our charts to do this let's
add one chart in the story we will take
uh a scatter plot chart just to see how
many events happen in a particular year
and also sales uh net revenue as well uh
on the x-axis we will add measures from
um for now we just see the measures from
planned event sample and uh on y AIS we
wanted to uh show the net sales revenue
for this for now on in this chart this
is just only one Sam uh model which is
planned events add we wanted to add link
model just click on this add link models
and we do have best ju sample model
which is already linked and you can see
this is joined already um so we uh
whatever the whatever the dimensions
join we can get it from this link D Link
model on the AIS we wanted to add a net
net revenue net sales revenue so for
this you can see now it has appeared the
next model as well which is linked and
we can select net revenue from this
model now we need a Dimensions or colors
on this as well because just adding
measures will not work this catter plot
needs a dimension colors as well uh
let's let's use a planed event sample
which we have created a link dimensions
on City so you can see it has a
different icon which says it's l linked
with the best R use sample model we can
select this now once we select this it
will appear like this where we can see
different different types of plots on
the on the scatter chart where it has
data based on the um on the on the y-
axis it has a net revenue and on the
xaxis is number of events for 2016 mean
what are the uh events happen and what
what is their revenues for that
particular event in that particular year
so this kind of data we can get it from
the two uh linked model now uh when we
say linked model link Dimensions we need
to see means how they are linked uh we
can uh see means there are two different
types of Link types we can say when when
we click on this uh option here you can
see there is an option of Link type
which says whether it is all primary
data or intersecting data only and there
is an all data option as well so all
primary dat these are nothing but the
joint types between the dimensions which
we are going to see so all primary data
means it will take all data from the
planned event sample and it will also
say it will also take the matching data
from the second uh model that means it's
kind of leop join you can say uh all
data is disabled here as of now because
this is enabled only when we use Hana uh
data sources uh that time you can get
this uh this will this will give all the
all the data from both the models and
then is intersecting data only that
means whatever the data which is
matching there that it will take so we
will see both this how to use this and I
will see show you practically as well on
this uh there are the other options of
one link Dimensions options we can
create new Mar members or we can merge
members as well and this is showing
active link Dimension so for now City
and location are active so if there are
many then we can get this as now let's
see how uh link Dimensions can give
different types of data based on the all
primary data or intersecting uh data
only that means uh just matching records
or all all kind kinds of data so I'm
just adding one chart here uh just to
see means how this affects the data
We'll add a link model as well which is
here plan event sample now uh I'll just
select uh this trend chart which is area
chart I will select and I will add a
measures the first measures I will add
from the is net
revenue and another measure I will be
going to add is about again the events
for that from the planned events model
I'm going to add a dimension as well
from the best R ju model which is a
location uh just to see location wise
Sals revenue for and the events as well
so now we can see means we do have the
hierarchy enabled for this location now
we can see means the location and the
sales revenue it is giving and the
events as well so we will just has
hierarchy is enabled on this location we
will go on this uh with the um Next
Level and we will see is how this
affects now you can see different types
of uh locations available here or the
cities available here uh where we can
say means there are two uh cities which
does not have any data means this best
run juice sample is not having any data
for now me you can say uh so in the in
the best run so in the in the link
Dimensions when we say uh this is all
primary data link type is selected as
all primary data that's why it is
showing like this where for now you
don't see any data for this particular
or there is no events for this uh two
cities which is uh because this orange
dots are events and this blue are net R
net revenue so for this is not not
having any uh data that means it doesn't
have any data in the second plan events
model though that that's why it is still
showing because we have selected this as
a all all primary data now if it's just
say select intersection intersecting
data only that means whatever the data
matching between the two tables that
will appear and you can see those two
records are not appearing or those two
locations are not appearing here
whatever the data which is matching mean
if there is an event then if there is a
revenue then that's what means it is
showing up there for that particular
location uh you will you will see there
is no um location uh available so this
is about uh that uh all primary data and
intersecting intersecting data will give
only matching records between the two
models and all primary data will give
the all the data from the left or the
first primary model which is here and
what are the matching from the second so
that kind of uh this um link Dimensions
uh function to Works link Dimensions
function to work in this video we will
see about predictive forecasting through
uh Trend time series chart we will see
different types of forecasting uh how we
can Implement forecasting for the trend
uh series charts based on the uh based
on the existing data there are different
types of predictive forecasting as well
of the algorithms which are there
available with the SSC that we can use
to show out the predictive forecasting
so let's get started let's add one uh
chart in the tra uh Trend chart you can
select time Ser chart and from that once
we will just uh select uh the bed on uh
juice sample model once we have added it
we can add measur let's say we will add
a measure uh we will create or we will
just create one calculation which is net
revenue original price minus uh discount
uh that is what the net sales revenue
once we have added this uh we need a
dimension as well and for time series or
chart it is always needed a date or time
uh di menion you will not see any other
list as well from the model we need to
select this uh date uh once we can see
this how this is let's do some number
formatting so that it will look
good so you can see this is what we do
have this time Trend series chart which
is created uh you can see different
different values which is for the year
month wise and so here we can select one
month data as well uh 3 months data 6
months year to uh data as well one year
and all year as well this way we can uh
we can do this now let's say is we'll
just see uh if you wanted to drill
through different uh year or half year
or month then we can do that as well uh
right now it is on month-wise it is
really down so we can go up in the
drilling as well now to add forecasting
uh we have this chart and we have the
option to add option here and you can
see forecast option there are two three
options available here one is automatic
forecast and the other one is some
Advanced forecasting which uses linear
regression and triple expansion uh
smoothing and additional inputs now we
can let's let's first do uh automatic
forecast when we click on this automatic
forecast the forecast will generate for
next um 6 months again uh whatever the
value we do have so whatever the so you
can see this is the forecast once we
have apply the forecast this link comes
on the top of this chart which says
forecast and if it is green that means
it is uh forecast is successful if it is
gray then uh the the color is gray then
forecast is low if it is the red red
color then that means forecast is
unsuccessful so we need to um see that
as well and once we click on this link
uh we can have this periods forecast
periods so for now this is 7 months
forecast and if you wanted to reduce
that uh we can do that suppose we just
wanted to see the forecast for next 4
months that we can show up here you can
see this is a the dotted line is kind of
a forecast it is showing and um one once
you click on this it will show
the line how how it looks like so that
it will be highlighting we can guess uh
the forecasting from here also you can
see and this is actually for forecast
means what of this gray area which is
here which shows
um this maybe upper bound or lower bound
values so now if you say that's what me
it is showing here uh which is this
forecast and this is with the automatic
forecast message will use the data which
is currently it is having the historical
data or the current data for the last 6
months based on that it can uh predict
now let's do some other forecasting as
well uh and we're going to add another
forecast which is
a Advan options which is there these are
two algorithms we can say linear
regression uh when we select linear
regression it will just kind of some it
will show like this uh now see you can
see this is how it shows here when we uh
see this uh forecast you can see
something which is it has changed and
may be possible that it will go in this
direction uh so it's lower lower bound
and upper bound are the values which
which chose up here uh similar to this
as well it it is having again uh green
gray and red color based on the forecast
and by default we can uh select this uh
whatever 7 months are available there
this is a linear uh Recreation which
which consider consist consist all the
data me all the previous historical data
and then it will forecast based on that
now let's go to another which is We'll
add a exponential forecast triple
expanation smoothing is again another
which is just taking the historical uh
range
for this you can see mean how this has
been changed and this is just a based on
the current but it it just shows mean
this can be possible to go in this
directions as well uh so you can see the
the dotted line which is here that is
kind of a reference line we can say
which shows the predictive forecasting
for that particular um period and the S
same it is going uh the next directions
and
based on that the actual values so
actual values would be kind of this uh
way maybe this way or maybe this way as
well it may be possible so we can
consider this this this would be the
highest or this would be the lowest
values that we can uh consider as a
forecast for this now the third type of
forecasting is adding input control
which is just available for time series
chart which is add additional input so
the basically uh this is one option
which is available add additional inputs
where uh maybe there is some measures or
some other input controls or uh we can
create and then it can influence the
forecasting so suppose we do have some
values which is um price or something
which is if you same is fixed then it
can be for now this is not applicable
because this price is not being
considered because of the lack of future
values but if you do have some values
which is already available uh in any of
the major or any of the columns we can
do consider that as additional forecast
inputs and then that can be utilized
here to predict the forecast to
summarize in this video we have learned
about uh three different types of um
Advance uh forecasting which is U linear
regression then U triple exponential
algorithm and then adding input controls
these are three apart from the automatic
forecast basically automatic forecast
Works basically on the available data
just to predict the future values uh
linear regression will take into account
we should use linear regression
algorithm to use storical time series
data to predict the future values and we
should use the triple exponential
algorithm uh to see the seasonal changes
or the time Trends uh for the forecast
and lastly additional input controls is
just using some of the measures of the
columns from the model which can
influence the prediction so it depends
upon the data if there is available for
the implementation of the forecast so
these are the some of the um forecasting
which we have seen in this video if you
have any question then please put it in
comment section this video we will learn
about analytical applications what is
analytical applications the theory
section I have already covered and the
link for that video is available in this
uh video description you can go through
uh it to understand uh what is analytic
applications however in this video I'll
be going to cover about practically how
to create analytical applications what
are different components available with
the analytical applications uh basically
analytical applications are the same as
uh stories but there are some major
differences between the stories and uh
analytical applications so analytical
applications here are some some of the
differences which which tells about what
is the difference between the stories
and the analytical applications so
analytical applications are created by
few experts means there will be few
experts or developers who can create
analytical applications uh but that that
uh stories or applications would be
consumed by many end users unlike T is
created the other major difference is we
can configure the behavor of the UI
element user interface elements with the
set of specific script API events and
then specify which action should take
place when events are triggered uh this
uh is all about user interface me maybe
uh some of the things which cannot be
achievable with the with the uh story
design but we can do with the antical
application so there are some customized
requirement from the business that can
be satisfied only through the antical
application that's why analytical
applications came into picture and this
uh flexibility can give us create
variety of an applications from a simple
static dashboard to highly customized
applications with uh numerous option
options to browse and navigate data
these are some of the major differences
between the stories and the article
applications uh we will see how to
create the first thing is um analytical
applications we can create it from here
uh create analytical applications once
once we create analytical applications
where we can see uh what we can do and
what are the different things which are
available here uh similar to storage we
do have uh chart tables um
and we can insert chart here uh whatever
the charts we we are having that we can
uh create based on the these
applications like we can create
different charts similar to the
storage however there are some other
things which are extra available here we
can see mean you can see this panel tab
strip uh text input field these are the
many things which is like drop down
checkbox grouping and these are some of
the components which are uh
available it's called at widgets and
this widgets are will be um available
for different different requirements and
you can see go map is also available
clock RSS reader web page uh then bpc
planning sequence R visualization is
again a powerful um I'll be covering
separate videos on AR as well then um so
these are some of the things on the left
side you can see canvas chart and then
popups there are some script VAR script
objects bookmark set export to PDF uh so
there are so many things which we can
have it and we can create um the
analytical application as for our need
so the only thing is about uh events and
triggers and the scripting so scripting
is also one thing which we should be
able to understand when whenever we say
uh scripting every component will have
we can write script based on this like
on select or on result change where we
can write some uh scripting so this this
scripting is nothing but a a JavaScript
language uh so JavaScript is a you can
say uh scripting language which is very
popular and it is number one language we
can say for the web development and that
is why it is uh being used as a common
term here I'll be going to take a
separate video on JavaScript as well
just to uh give an overview of the
JavaScript so that would be uh you can
helpful there are some other online
resources as well available for Javas
script if you can learn from there as
well it would be helpful um then uh the
other thing is about uh here uh we have
some chart scaling conditional
formatting there are options various
options available we will be taking this
uh separately in a separate video uh one
by one what what all these um components
are there like popups we can have popups
uh I'll be taking a separate video on
the popups how it it can be useful uh to
display different different um popup
messages when we create an applications
and we can so canvas is one thing where
we can see there are device in which
device we wanted to see if you wanted to
see in a laptop uh then we can see or if
you wanted to show this in iPad then it
will come uh in this way just iPhone So
based on the size of the phone we we can
get this option available here while the
designing of the application so I think
is from my perspective this is very
powerful tool and if you know the
scripting and if you know the components
how it they interact with each other and
then then we can build very powerful uh
analytical applications from this uh
there are very various things which we
can do and whatever the customized
requirement comes from the business it
will be helpful to create this such
powerful applications uh based on this
uh various components available
I'll be taking one by one example for
each on each of these uh components so
that it will be helpful so that's it
from this uh video I I hope you have
understood this if you have any
questions then please put it in comment
section if you have some specific
requirement where scripting can be
useful or you want to understand any
specific points related to the scripting
or any other parts in the antical
application please do let me know in com
comment section I'll be happy to answer
it in this video we will see about using
popup Windows uh in analytic
applications so this is one applications
which I have developed and where I can
see is when we click on uh this uh
selection a popup window gets open so
suppose we wanted to see the gross
margin uh in the tabular format we can
uh get to see this in the popup window
and when we select chart it can be
possible to be displayed in the chart so
this can be possible with the scripting
and uh I will be going to cover in this
video the step by step how we can add
these components and then how we can
write some scripts uh just to enable
this popups to be displayed there may be
some other requirements as well that we
can also do with this uh scripting so
let's get started first we will create
uh analytical applications create
analytic application uh from the menu
now once we have this canvas gets open
by default and we can have it uh let's
get added some of the um chart initially
on this let's say here we are going to
add a sales revenue uh this is this is
one simple chart which I have added now
and um I I can add some other uh check
uh radio button we wanted to see either
graph graph display or we wanted to show
in the TBL format so for this let's do
this radio button group option here now
you can see mean this is a option
available here means where we can give
some values so what are the text values
so display in the chart format and the
second will second one will be a t table
format and we can just apply the first
one is a default means this is the
default selected if you wanted to select
this this we also we can display this as
well as a default U once we do this um
now let's try to run this when we we
wanted to run this means we can see uh
we have added now two charts one is uh
in the in the column chart and the other
is line chart now what I we wanted to
show is we wanted to show a popup window
where on on click of this chart we
wanted to display another popup which
will display data in a chart format or
in this table format now uh let's go
back uh to the application now to do
this means what we wanted to do means
let's try to First add popups popups can
be added here from uh here just click on
this we can give some different name to
this popup uh one uh so pop is basically
a Windows window which has a header and
footer just click on this can give some
information uh like gross
margin as this is what we wanted to
display on the window and okay and uh
cancel are the two buttons which will be
appear on the popup window at the bottom
like this there are some other
properties of emphasized enabled and
visible so both will be visible enable
will be both will be enabled if you want
miss any button we want to disabled that
also we can do it and we can enable it
through scripting emphasize is means
highlighted one which is shown up
here now um now what we wanted to do me
on this radio button group we wanted to
display this popup which will uh will be
uh having the chart so uh to do this
first go to this popup and in this popup
we are going to add one um in popup one
will be displaying the data in the chart
format so let's do this in a chart
format now uh we wanted to see uh this
is just add gross margin here now you
can see uh this is what we have added uh
as a product and it's gross margin we
can give some name to this as well it is
gross margin per product now once we
have added this um we can just save it
and there is a scripting scripting is
one thing which is what we wanted to do
we can go to this scripting we wanted to
enable this okay and cancel button
scripting as well mean when on button of
uh this click we wanted to close this uh
popup close so when we do a DOT uh and
control space button you will get option
of there are various functions
associated with it uh that particular
widget that it will be shown up now uh
this popup one will be having this now
it it just created now what we wanted to
do is we wanted to open this popup when
uh this value is CH so go to this edit
script and on select we do have an
option of on select where uh when we
click on this so we will be checking
first uh
if radio button. get selected text this
is one function means whatever the value
is selected if it is equal to equal to
um chart then display popup one and that
that means we want to just open it let's
try to run this means how it works means
um we we see this as chart or table and
when we click on chart you can see this
chart is open me now we can click click
on okay but when we say table uh we are
not getting any popup window here we are
just seeing it but but on chart we can
get
it now to do this on chart as well means
we will add another popup which uh which
is again a TBL data here we will be
going to add uh similar to what we have
done it earlier for this uh we'll add a
measor cross margin we already added and
we are going to add some location this
is something which we have uh going to
add it here and now this whatever the
radio group functions on select function
is written we can just write it else
means if it is
if the radio group is equal to equal to
chart then we are going to display popup
one uh if it is not chart that means it
is a value of table then we wanted to
display popup two now uh so this is what
uh we wanted to do means now if you run
it uh we we can uh see that it is
getting open now on the PO popup uh two
as well we wanted to close it means
whenever uh user clicks on that button
when we run this we should be able to
see um the T table data and the uh chart
data as you can see means now uh when um
this is the one which is there and uh
see on table as well we are getting the
table data which is
here and on chart as well we are getting
a chart type of data so all the
functionality which is available here
means we can see it we can drill down
through it as well me to go in more
detail uh so similar to this mean there
may be some requirements where the such
type of scripting can be you uh required
means where we can apply such scripting
means from one event from One clicking
on this we can do this scripting on uh
Button as well button click we can do it
on uh so there are buttons uh you can
see there are different different
components so we can do this on text
click as well uh we can just write uh
this text suppose we do have this text
which is here and uh we can go to to
this and we can on click of this as well
we can open a popup another popup so
let's uh say Miss we can we want it to
display this this way also we can when
uh the users click on particular text as
well we can uh open another window or
another popup so this is the US usage of
the popup Windows which is very useful
when we have multi uh um like many
different stories and there are
different different components and
Suppose there are some buttons which we
just wanted to to show some of the
information in a small window like a
popup window then uh this type of
Windows we can I use let's learn how to
display uh charts or table data based on
the scripting uh code uh Suppose there
is an icon which says means I wanted to
display the T data in t tabular format
and once clicked on this data will be
displayed in the uh tabular format
however when when clicked on
chart icon the data will be displayed on
the uh in the chart format this is what
we wanted to uh do it and we can do with
this um with the use of the scripting uh
so let's do do it how how we can do it
now what uh what first first step which
uh is we need to add tables we need to
add tables and then um a chart based on
uh on top of it me both of the tables
and uh chart should be on the the same
line so I have just added a chart from
here and the table from here and if you
can see how to align that so you can see
the margin from here means on the table
you can say the top margin would be
let's say means we do have 128 and
similar to what chart will be also we
will set the same way uh you can see
when we click on chart me it's almost uh
same or we can say it's so that both of
them will be aligned on same once we
have done this we need a icon to be
displayed for that I have added a image
to to add the image I have done this
from adding image from here once we add
a image click on this image we'll get we
it will ask for the image to be dis uh
taken from our local system or from the
server as well so and then we can uh
paste add it here once we have uh done
this I have just rename it as switch to
table display is the one name and switch
to chart display so just for um
understanding purpose I have given the
name now to switch actual switching when
we wanted to do is just go to the
scripting of this uh so when we wanted
to uh say uh chart display uh we we will
write some scripting on this what we
wanted to do is we wanted to when chart
data is displayed we wanted to display
the table table icon and we wanted to
hide the tabular data but we wanted to
uh
display the chart data now when we say
when we say switch to chart display icon
when we user clicks on the switch to
chart display option we wanted to set
chart as visible and table as invisible
so we can say first chart one is set
visible and table one as set visible
false so this is what we need and also
we wanted to display a a table display
as true
and um what mean that is the icon which
is there and also chart as a false now
the similar thing we which we wanted to
do but in the opposite direction for the
other icon as well so for this what we
can do we we can write uh this as
false and this as true so on on table
display we wanted to display chart as
making as chart as false visible and
table we wanted to display and also we
wanted to hide the table icon but we
wanted to display the chart
icon this way we can do it on
initialization as well we wanted to
write uh we we we just wanted to add
chart one. set visible as false at the
first place and both the charts we don't
want to be uh shown at the first place
when the application is run let's run
this now you can see when it is
run it just shows the two icons which is
TBL and chart when we click on chart the
chart will be displayed and the chart
icon will be invisible now when we
wanted to display in the table format
just click on this tabular format now
this data will come in table format and
the graph chart will be icon will be
displayed here so this way we can switch
like this and this will work uh so this
is what we wanted to uh we can do with
this uh application
now we can see this is the functions
which we wanted to do is both the images
the script we write let's learn about
planning with SSC what is planning and
what are the different different things
which we can do with planning so very
first thing is what is planning so
planning is all about setting strategic
goals for a business and then
determining how to meet those goals by
creating annual budgets tracking
progress in forecast and simulating
scenarios to find new opportunity uh so
there are three critical factors which
we should consider while using planning
is one is budgets the other one is
forecast and the scenarios predictive
scenarios we can say which can be useful
to set the goals and how we can uh
achieve them three main phases we can
say ACT first is act means we can
analyze the information then predict and
report all kinds of information we can
plan and analyze directly with the
Enterprise solution for instant uh
insight to action
and we can also visualize performance
metrics that comes in act act or action
Parts uh then we can once we have done
all these analysis prediction and
Reporting and doing some performance
metric we need to collaborate
continuously collaborate means we need
to discuss plans interact on screen
crowdsource plans means whatever the
plans are there we need to discuss or
collaborate with other business users or
other business stakeholders who can
contribute to that plans so that it
would be um help to improve the plans
and then finally we can become an
intelligence Enterprise we can based on
the planning and the forecasting based
on the actual budgets we can become a
intelligence Enterprise where we can
discover top influencers we can augment
manual insights and ask questions to get
answers this is important uh in terms of
planning three things which is act
continuously collaborate and become an
intelligent Enterprise so that that way
we need to use planning for S now we can
say planning budgeting and forecasting
as I said means this is the important
three important Concepts which is uh
related to the planning the first one is
planning where uh we can uh provide the
overall process for studying the
direction and the financial objective
what is the possible means what are the
things which can be possible with the
current business or whatever the
planning there then we can based on that
we can prepare some strategic plans set
overall goals and objective we we can
have long range plans as well me over uh
3 to years or 10 years Horizon and
annual plans as well first years for
long range plan so um three important
things strategic plans do some strategic
plans then uh do some uh 3 to 10 years
uh plan and review your annual plans
year on year that is what it is we can
do in planning so what is possible will
be considered in planning the next one
is budgeting in budgeting we need to
provide the execution PA path for the
plan means what is expected what are the
things which we can provide for the plan
sales and growth margin budgets capital
expenditure budget head count budgets
operating expenses budget budget means
there are different different parts or
different
different persons or areas in the uh
business which can be useful to see
means what what what is the budget we
can allocate to that particular person
so based on the actual work we can work
out with this budgeting then forecasting
is another third one is where we use
actual performance data to project
reminder of the current year performance
so whatever the actual is happening like
whatever previously plan and what is it
is doing at the moment in the business
so based on that that data we can protu
for the next uh year or next 3 years or
five years how could be it could be so
and if there are any Improvement then we
can do the improvements based on that
forecasting so these are the three
important um topics which are related to
planning budgeting forecasting for S
Storage and where sap can help for
Enterprise so any Enterprise means what
what are the areas what are the main
business areas where SCP or SCP Antics
Cloud can help in terms of planning so
there are Finance sales marketing
operations infotech work force so these
are that covers most of the or all of
them all of the operations of any
business which we can say Finance is
related to the financial planning sales
is related to the sales team or sales uh
how sales is performing sales
forecasting is also is done marketing it
can help to pricing the trade promotions
product profitability loyality and many
other things operations are also thing
mean how the inventory is managed
logistic optimization warehouse
management demand planning then infotech
that means it uh resource ation cost
allocations Network and Facilities
Workforce means what are the employees
or how many employees how are required
what are their performance how uh the
benefits of the staffs can be analyzed
and uh their pension planning Healthcare
planning facilities planning so all
these can provide so these are the areas
where sap can help for an Enterprise and
sap analytics Cloud planning so this is
very powerful tool I I would say for sap
uh which sap Has Come For sap Antics
cloud and it will be a very uh demanding
in future let's learn about some of the
concepts to the planning data model and
how to create that me there are some
theoretical Concepts which we are going
to cons cover in this video creating
planning model because whenever we are
wanted to do planning model and then we
wanted to build some dashboards or
stories then for planning related we
need to consider planning model so
planning model allows to do everything
analytic models do
uh however they give more control with
the data such as setting up budgets and
forecast so budgets and forecast are the
important part apart from what
analytical models is doing all these
things can be done by planning model
however there is additional setting
budgets and forecast which can create
own versions of data model and copying
pasting data and using spreading or
Distributing and allocating features so
this is important thing to understand
what is planning model does me budget
and forecast are important uh part which
are additional to that analytical models
planning phases means how far into the
past and how far into the future that is
what we wanted to see me what are the
time settings that we need to specify
means that is important means uh whether
we need to go for the next 3 years or
just one year or just or five years or
more than that as well so that comes
under the settings for time so time
category is very important to consider
planning phases and and in time as well
you can see granularity where year
quarter month and day are we need to
give what are the different categories
or standard categories available for
planning actual which comes as actual
values budget will be how much is
allowed to spend that means whatever the
estimated budget for any business to run
there is some budget amounts decided by
the uh business management so that
amount will be uh specified in the
budget planning will be what is the goal
what what is the goal mean how far you
want to go for next one year next three
year or next 5 years then what is
forecast forecast is comes about the
expectations so what could be the
expectation of the financial data me
based on the actual data what could be
the forecast and rolling forecast will
be range of back and back or forward
mean it can be forecast related to the
forward or backward just for our
analysis purpose what is the difference
between analytic model versus planning
model in this we can see analytical
model runs on live or imported data
planning model requires data to be
acquired we cannot directly connect to
the live database or data source in the
planning model then in analytic model we
do not need category or time Dimensions
however in planning model we do need
account category and time Dimensions
which are required because that all
depends upon these categories only uh
when we say planning no additional
categories required in antic model
additional categories May required or
are required in the planning model
calculation of measures by formula uh
and in planning model adjust or extend
the data by planning function so there
are some planning functions which are
used or which required so that comes in
planning model uh analytical model can
use can share the their dimension in
planning model we cannot use we need to
use a private versions and the last one
is data loaded by scheding refresh or
mapping however in planning model we
need to import or export data to SB
standard so these were the some of the
concepts to the planning model let's
learn about sap Antics Cloud predictive
there are some introductory Concepts
about sap Antics Cloud productive and
how we can utilize this for different
different things there are some
important Concepts which are going to be
covered in this video the very first
important topic is augmented analytics
so augmented analytics is means it's a
more enhanced or more increased
analytics which uses machine learning
technology for the antic process and
what could it helps it can go from
insight to action within a fraction of
time within a fraction of time it can
generate lot lot many different
different visualization or stories it
can avoid dat agenda driven or bias
decision making by revealing what drives
the business so what is the key factor
what is the important factor which is
running the business that we can
consider or which can be taken into
consideration and based on that it can
provide the different decisions there
are three main functionalities which has
provided which is search to Insight
smart insight and smart Discovery so
search to Insight which can quickly find
way to answers that means user can type
in English language some questions and
then it can the system will provide
answers effectively within fraction of
time then smart insights it can give
inser instant explanations where uh it
can understand top contribut
contributors for specific data points
without having to manually peot or slice
and dice so there are many manual things
which we do generally in the reporting
area that can be avoided and it can
automatically create different charts in
our P type of format which can easily um
able to help to take the decisions for
the management users then smart
Discovery is another thing where you can
easily reveal the insights identify key
influencers and relationship in the data
to discover how business factors
influence performance we will be seeing
all the thes practically how this works
this will be a very important topic to
understand in this as well we need to
understand predictive forecasting as
well we uh by using predictive
forecasting we can get some early
warning system we can use multiple
mathematical techniques such as data
mining statistic machine learning and
artificial intelligence so here in
diagram you can see how the predictive
forecasting is given here for next few
months uh or few years as well we can
take this predictive
analysis and how predictive analysis in
story can be I have already taken one
video practically about this how
predictive forecasting the link for that
video you can find in the video
description where you can see this um um
forecasting we have done different
different types of forecasting as well
which we have done automatic forecasting
there are some linear regression and
triple exponential smoothing algorithm
as well that we you can uh
consider and when we wanted to build
different different calculations
predictive calculation which can be used
again and again in different stories
then we can make a predictive model see
how to create a predictive model as well
because this is important how to create
mod predictive model we can create
different calculation type to get right
data about the usual data model we can
uh use as the data source for a new
story once model is created that can be
used to multiple stories we can have
addition functional to create um the own
predictive modation as well who consumes
predictive model whenever we create a
predictive model there are two
stakeholders we can say data scientist
and business user data scientist can
create content with embed productive
models using sap business objects
Predictive Analytics and deploy them to
sap business objects cloud while
business users can interact with the
predictive contact and complex
simulation using filters and parameters
they can return the predict model in
real time allowing the data generation
with the support of generating scores
probability anest then zero code
deployment there is no need to deploy
the code means whatever the complicated
stories or complicated predictive
scenarios we are building there is no
coding required means for deployment it
is just a seamless deployment from one
system one environment to other so it
will not be going to be uh very
difficult and that that to be without
coding effort so business values what
are the business values we can get we
can get everyone share their insights
business users make faster decision data
sties control the business user
experience and it manage with the less
effort that means cost
saving let's learn about smart assist we
have seen that what is augmented
analytics in our previous videos
continuing to that means we will see
what are different things which we can
do with the smart assist but what is
Smart data discovery that is the one
definition we wanted to see at the first
place uh it's smart Discovery is a Next
Generation data Discovery capability
that provides with business users or
citizens data scientists with insights
from Advanced analytics business
intelligence and analytics leaders
should plan for adoption as capabilities
mature so this is very important to
understand means about the data
Discovery because business intelligence
and analytics things will be going in in
this Direction only going forward
because data Discovery will be providing
different different capabilities to the
business users or the data scientist
which can
generate insights from uh different
different data which is actually having
right now in the business in that way
only sap has come up with smart assist
where there are different things which
which we can do and that for this sap
has using machine learning
technology which which covers about
search to Insight smart Discovery smart
insights time series forecasting R
visualization also is important powerful
things smart grouping uh smart
transformation R visualization is
something we can say it's related to the
data science
so that's what me sap wanted to utilize
and R is integrated with the sap Antics
Cloud as well where we can build
powerful visualizations that can be
useful we will see this practically one
by one each uh these uh
topics so what smart assist includes
smart assist includes smart Discovery
smart Insight smart grouping smart
transformation uh we will see this one
by one so smart Discovery will be having
all kpis core KP which which understand
the our main business drivers behind the
core kpis and based on that this kpis it
can be
U for business it can give different
different decisions making data which
will be helpful for them to be make the
data so it can uncover key influencers
of KPS by using classification and
regation techniques interact with the
insights and explore hidden structures
and relationship can find the answers to
business questions through initiative
charts and natural language natural
language that means users can write
their questions in English language and
then the tool sap anti SC Cloud tool can
come up with the different visualization
within fraction of time that that's a
power powerful capability of s Antics
Cloud second point is smart insights
which can develops clear understanding
of intricate aspects of the business
data based on suppose we have created
one column chart or vpsa numeric chart
or VPI created any other chart like line
chart or go map based on the that if you
can say add smart insights based on the
data it can give some uh information in
terms of English language what are the
top contributors for that particular uh
particular business or what what what
what is the factor which is affecting
the revenue kind of those can give the
example here or the explanation that is
smart
insights smart grouping is we can use
our technology which is are is an again
a data science language we can say which
can automatically create segments on
different types of data in the
organization uh which can identify
customer groups automatically in the
data and then can provide such type of
visualization which will be helpful for
the
business
users in this video we will learn about
the scripting and practically what is
scripting and why scripting is needed in
analytics application or analytics
design designer it is derived from
JavaScript but what is the difference
between JavaScript and analytics
designer scripting so this is we are
going to see scripting is very important
in Antics application or analytics Cloud
because when we wanted to build powerful
customized Antics applications scripting
is very important and we need to
understand all the topics related to
that means so that means if you have
knowledge on the JavaScript then
analytics designer scripting is very
useful if you don't have a knowledge on
JavaScript then please try to learn uh
JavaScript some some basic concepts then
we uh it it will be helpful for anex
scripting in anex designer so what we
are going to cover here is about
JavaScript typing anex designer typing
data type conversion how data type
conversions happen between different
different data types like number to
string string to uh number all the data
types then what what are different Loops
available in antic designer like for
Loops while Loops we will see this
practically there is an additional Loops
available in Antics designer which is
for in that will also we will see double
or triple operators in javascripts and
analytics designer that we are going to
see JavaScript switch statements how to
use in analytics designer and lastly we
will see script validation as well where
how script validation happens in
JavaScript and how script validation
happens in the antic designer so all
these topics we'll be covering one by
one with the Practical example so please
please watch this video till the end so
that you will understand all these
topics which is very important in terms
of scripting in Antics designer let's
get
started very first thing is about
analytics scripting mean why analytics
scripting is needed when we create uh
analytics applications from here as we
know means we can write different
different scripts on the different
components script like you can say mean
when we right click or when we C see
this we can see edit script on on this
and we get in a screen of something
which is called on select or so there
are different widgets me you can write
some scripts on uh chart as well where
uh we can uh select on select or on
result change uh events these are some
of the different things which are
available and but and we can do some
customization on analytics applications
based on the scripting so when we say
scripting we need to understand first
from where uh what type of programming
language is this me from where it comes
basically this Antics designer scripting
is is a subset of JavaScript so as a
JavaScript is one of the most powerful
programming language in today's world uh
websites or web applications where it it
is used as a browser based language
where um it uses in in combination with
the HTML and CSS so if you have
knowledge on this JavaScript then you
can easily build powerful applications
in scripting of analytics application if
you don't know JavaScript uh then you
can learn it from the web online web you
can just Google it for JavaScript and
you can get it some of the useful online
tutorials and it is very easy to uh
understand or learn anyone can do it and
it it is very powerful language in
today's word web but there are some
differences between JavaScript and
analytics scripting that U we will see
here the very first
difference is Javascript is weekly type
language or dynamic type language there
are two types of language however
analytics designer uh scripting is a
completely Dynamic kind of um scripting
language we can say so first we need to
understand what is weakly type and what
is strongly type means so for this let's
try to write some uh script here what
happens in JavaScript is Java in
JavaScript if you write this uh line
like if you're are declaring one
variable so this is where it's it's a
variable and end is variable name and we
are assigning one value to this variable
how and when we try to print this with
the it's combination of this hello word
message with the N variable so basically
we are um concatenating string with the
number uh that that is type convergence
so this this these two lines are valid
in JavaScript but not in analytics
designer we will see how to write the
JavaScript script applications now let's
go to uh let's go to uh this is one of
the HTML page which I have created and I
do have uh script code is added here so
whenever we write any JavaScript code we
write we can write it here now uh the
same lines if you just put it here uh it
will um paste it me if you just uh write
it it will not give an any error but in
analytics designer it will give an error
saying that automatic type conversion is
not isn't supported type conversion
means it is a conversion of number to
string or string to number so this is
not supported in anex designer so this
is major difference but however in the
JavaScript it can be supported means it
will not give any error now let's try to
run this so when uh I'm just ran this
HTML file and I'm just uh have just
clicked on this and you can see means
you can see this is a console where I'm
printing a message which is the first is
test matches which is just this test
matches which is getting printed but the
two lines which is there variable length
is equal to one that means string and
number one is concatenated uh that means
it is displayed means this is a weekly
type conversion that means it will
automatically uh decide means what type
of runtime convergence happen uh so that
that is decided in JavaScript however in
Antics applications it is not possible
to uh work work out this we either need
to convert it to string or number so
basically if you wanted to work it out
here we can just try uh select as two
string or to some other uh data type
which is uh compatible with the hello
word now you can see means here it will
work if you try to run this uh we will
see um in the console how it looks like
now when we I have written the script on
this uh button so when we click on this
you can see Hello word comma 1 is
display now in the an script so this is
a major difference whenever we wanted to
have a data type uh convergence we need
to do it manually with these functions
available like two string or two fix
kind of things uh however in JavaScript
it will automatically uh do this so this
is the first difference of automatic
type conversion or automatic type c we
should be able to understand now the
next point is about loops uh why Loops
are needed and what are the different
types of Loops available in sap antic
scripting now in JavaScript there are
for Loop while loop is available similar
to the this Loops uh in analytics
designer also we can do for Loop and wi
Loop now you can see in the JavaScript
uh program we can we have write for I is
equal to Zer that is that means I wanted
to print this hello word hello message
three times uh when we wanted to do
iterative uh programming or iteration of
some some calculations of some of the
the function then we need this kind of
Loops so for Loop is like this means we
wanted to display multiple times this
line so in this case when we wanted to
see this when we when we run this now
when we click on this you can see uh
hello for 0 1 2 3 three times this
message has been printed if there are
any other operations which we wanted to
print based on this trative values then
we can use this and now suppose we
wanted to use similar kind of for Loop
in our anex application then so let's
see whether it is working or not in anex
applications we will come here and I
will just this will just comment out it
now now you can see when we type this it
will give an error something it is uh
which says this is unknown variable it
could not identify what is this variable
that means we have to declare it
manually or just explicitly uh where it
we need to see this where variable that
means this is variable um I is an
variable which is uh it would be uh it
would understand now you can see in this
message as well this is not again means
we cannot use string with the number
because the type conversion is not
supported so we have to use something
which is true string similar to what we
have done this when we run this
application now we will we should be
able to see the similar type of output
which is in the JavaScript program now
when we select any of these values you
can see this this is getting printed in
the console which is 0 one to the
similar type of data so we need to
understand this difference that we uh we
need we need to declare uh the variables
like
this and need to make the type converion
as well with the functions available now
the next point is about the while loop
while is again also alterative kind of
Loops which is available similar to for
Loop there are some differences now when
we we wanted to see um while loop as
well when we wanted to use it uh if you
just wanted to give some
um range means still what time it what
number or what range it should uh
iterate uh this is what we need to use
and similar this is being used in
JavaScript as well we can use the same
the only thing is means we need to
declare variable in for the for Loop
while loop as well similar to this we
need to use it let's comment out this
now and now if you just say now you can
say me it will start with one but less
than three means that will it should
display one time two times and with the
increment increment so this is one by
one it is incrementing now let's save it
you can see me when we select it it it
is just displayed uh two times now if
you want it to display three times
because n is declar as one and it is not
zero if you declare zero and if you
wanted to make it as four or then then
it will be it will start with 1 2 3 so
this is how while Loops can be used now
the next point we will see about the
double equal to operator and triple
equal to operator and what how to use it
also we will see if then L statement as
well means how it has been used in this
this is one code which I have just
written where I have declared n as a
variable which is having value one and I
using triple equal to sign here which is
important to understand means when we
wanted to use it when we wanted to
compare compare the value of this to
this then we can we should be using
triple equal to sign in the the in the
analytics scripting uh and if you run if
you try to run this application you will
do you will see mean this is working
perfectly now you can see mean it it is
um n is equal to equal to one that's why
it has displayed if statement here
because that's what it is printed here
similar code if you go in the JavaScript
as well means you can see means this is
not the case means uh we can see means
if you give equal to equal to operator
as well it will
work and also if you give triple equal
to sign as well then also it will work
now let's see me uh how this works you
can see this is also JavaScript program
also gives the same St statement now
when we say just if you just in
JavaScript you just give double equal to
sign then it will
it will decide on run time is what are
the types of these two variables like
two values this and this whether if it
is if this is number or and if this is a
string then it will automatically decide
on run time that is dynamically it it
will decide while the program is being
executed I'm just doing it again and now
also you can see mean this is again
going to give the same result now the
similar thing if you do it in the Antics
applications like instead of triple
equal to sign we if you give just double
equal to sign then it it will give an
error saying that this could lead to an
unexpected beavor because of possible
autotype conversion during runtime so
during runtime is when the application
is run then it will decide me what are
the type conversion so suppose this is
number and uh then uh this applic this
variable should be also number so it
will automatically convert it to number
now if I try to run this application now
you can see means when it is run means
if I select this it will it will give a
correct answer because it has on run
time it has been decided means which
data type is what the conversion has
been happened on run time but this is
this is not this is not recommended
means to use this double equal to
operator when you wanted to use instead
use triple equal to so that the type
conversion will happen before executing
the application so this is very uh uh
important thing to remember whenever we
wanted to use uh this operator
because JavaScript is not that strongly
type language it it decides on the
runtime and that's why it is sometimes
it throws an exception but at uh while
application is run but in antic designer
this all validation is done before
running the application and that's why
we should be using this triple equal to
operator here while comparing any
values now there are things which we can
do with the program flow as well means
when we wanted to check one condition
then we wanted to display like this if
if then else statement how it should be
return so if one condition is satisfied
then do some calculation or do some
display some message then else if we can
add another condition we can do some
other uh calculation or any other
message to be displayed like this we can
do this if then L statement now in
JavaScript there is another one which is
switch statement as well is there so
that switch statement is also in
JavaScript we if you give this so this
will not give an error it will work
correctly mean this is again program
flow how how it happens like means if if
the case statement is now you can see
means in JavaScript this is one
statement which is written here like
mean if the value is one suppose we can
pass some values to this as well uh like
um let's say we have variable of one a
as like four three or two let's say
means and we are just passing to this a
as here if a is equal to whatever the
value a is having the particular case
statement will be executed so in this
case two is the value for a then in that
case this statement will execute so that
that is what means uh the switch
statement is to be done now same thing
means if you do uh in analytics
uh like this I'm just copying it here
and we'll just try to write it
here now you can see it will not this we
need to declare it so when we copy this
we can see this is what mean so for this
we need to just declare this as where
because it will not work it needs to be
identified it is a strongly type
scripting language gentics designer we
need to explicitly specify the variables
for that particular like we identifier
for that particular variables the
similar way means we need to do this in
antic scripting application and the last
point which is there is about um
validation means how the validation
happens basically in Antics designer uh
we uh the validation or the very syntax
checking or any errors that all kind of
data validation or syntactical error
validation is done before running the
applications suppose now you can see
means since I haven't given it here um
it will immediately say that it is
giving an uh it is not correct I mean
just specify the correct Ed data type
here while JavaScript is not like that
in JavaScript suppose I'm just making
some mistake here it will not throw an
error now that is not the case in the
JavaScript suppose this is one code
which I have written and I'm just making
one change instead of this nth variable
I am just making uh mean I'm just
changing its variable name is something
to like this now and when I'm trying to
run basically it should give an error
here itself that this variable is not
declar anywhere about this but this this
Pro JavaScript doesn't give that type of
errors but it will be validating at the
run time is suppose we are giving an uh
mean we are just trying to run this and
just click on this you can see this
means this is given an exception at run
time mean this n is not undefined not
defined so this is what means it's a
difference between the antic designer
and an JavaScript JavaScript doeses the
data validation at runtime or program
validation at run time while antic
designer does the validation before
running the applications so this this
this is something which is major
difference we can say and uh this way it
will prevent any unsecure data to go on
web when we are using Antics it is
better to catch the errors before um
going over the websites or any other
applications when we are putting it in
browser so that way this anex
applications is useful or I think means
it is good that it is sap has come up
with this uh options to have this
validation done before before running
the applications that's it from this uh
video I hope you have understood I have
tried to cover most of the things uh
about the scripting the scripting is
important to consider I'll be taking
some more examples on the scripting on
different different our widgets which
are available uh if you have any
questions or comments or suggestions
please do let me know in comment section
in this video we will see about filter
ing the table based on the drop down
selection uh you can see this is one of
the application which I have created if
you select any of the measures from this
uh the corresponding table gets
populated with that particular measure
like if I just wanted to display
original sales price for that particular
uh table we can get this original sales
price in this video basically we will
see how to add drop- down and then how
to add these major values to the drop
down and also see how to filter out this
data let's create first an application
analytic application where we will uh
create first one uh table simple table
and then we will add a drop down box as
well I'm selecting this model which is
best on juice model sample model
available here now you can see means it
is already populated with the account
dimensions and gross margin now we
wanted to have a drop- down which will
populate different different measures
what so different different measures
means whatever the measures which are
available here in this particular model
now what we will do we will add one drop
down first in this from uh here we can
add a drop down box once drop down is
added we can add we will add one text
box as well here just to the text text
box as well we will add it here which
will say selected measures now you can
see right now when we run this
application we will not see any of the
things in the top down it will just uh
have whatever it is there as a table and
in drop down will not be populated uh in
in it we wanted to add some uh drop-
down values first in this so This that
is the first thing for this we will
create one script variable from here for
this script variable we will give name
like current measure selection because
this is what means we can give any name
but for now means we will see mean just
to identify correctly we will say
current major filter SE is selection and
we will give default value because we uh
when when application is run we wanted
to see its default value something which
is gross margin because this is the
measure which is getting displayed at
the first
place so to display cross margin at the
you can write like this uh which is this
is a model name and then its parent ID
and gross margin if you write like this
means it will come like um gross margin
and the drop down but now we have just
created this fi uh script variable which
we will be creating and then it will act
as a global variable we can use anywhere
in this uh applications now to load this
application means first thing we we we
need to initialize the drop down with
the different different values like
gross margin sales revenue like discount
different different measures to do this
on the canvas of this canvas screen we
need to write edit script and on
initialization means when the
application is first run we need to
populate all the measures at the first
place to do that means we need to add
some scripting first try to get all the
measures from the tables mean whatever
the table we will give uh rename this
table to table so that it will be easy
uh to identify on on initialization of
this uh script we will we will get the
table do get data source so this is one
of the measures we are going to create
and get data source get measures so what
what this will be doing it will take all
the measures we can just try try to
print this as well in the console me
just to for our testing purpose here we
can uh print that this measures is the
variable which we we are where in that
we are trying to get all the measures of
this particular table so table is having
associated with the data source which is
the based on juice model and all the
measures which are associated that with
that we are getting to that let's see is
how this works in the now when we try to
print this in console we can see this
this is the what it is printing here uh
what what all all these things which are
dimensions like you can see it here when
we we wanted to print this you can see
this means all the measures which are
all available in that account based
onore sold model that all are coming
like this uh which is having description
gross margin discount original sales
price and all these things so basically
this is these are the IDS and these are
the descriptions so basically in drop
down we wanted to display description to
do that let's go back in our
applications and we need to write some
script
here now what we have done here mean do
like selected key is one variable which
is taken as blank and we we are checking
measures. length is greater than zero
means what is this measures measures is
nothing but these measures which are
getting all the measur from the model uh
we we are going to Loop these conditions
like for Loop we are applying where we
wanted to drop down do measures do add
item so in the drop down measure so we
have the drop down which is here in the
in that drop down measure we we are
going to add add do item do add item and
measures of I do ID comma measures of I
do description so what this will do in
this uh drop down it will add the
particular measures description uh for
that particular data source and what
this code will do like if selected key
is equal to equal blank means whatever
the value is selected which is coming as
first as suppose it is getting gross
margin then it will be displaying that
assigning that value to this selected
key and lastly we will see um we will
set drop down measures do set selected
key as selected key so whatever the
values which is selected here that will
be assigned to that particular drop-
down measure so this is what it should
we should be doing to add the measures
from the data source now let's try to
run this now you can see means by
default this value has has been come as
gross margin for this drop down as
selected because we have given that drop
default value in that particular
variable and then you can see different
different values like measures value
which are come here Discount sales price
price quantity sold now if you select
any of the measures it will not affect
this table because we haven't written
any to work on this filtering of the dis
table we will work on that now now uh to
do this we need script objects means we
need need to create one function which
will do this um filtering of the data
means whatever the value which is
selected here in this drop down it
should be passing to that particular uh
table as a set Dimension filter now we
will do this uh we will add one function
for this when we add any function we get
an folder created here and we can rename
this as well let's say me I'm just it
isun name I'm giving we we'll rename
this as well set measure filter because
this is what we wanted to we we will say
return type we don't want to return type
we need one argument because the what
are the value which is we are passing
from drop- down to uh table filter that
value we will be passing this to uh this
field function so for that we will add
one argument here that argument we will
give name it as selected ID type will be
string because we are passing string
from the drop down so that data type
will be string only now we have done
this now we need to write some script on
this uh filter function so that it will
be possible to filter out here uh this
script which is table. gate data source.
remove Dimension filter because whatever
when at the first place application is
run the table is displaying gross margin
at the first place we wanted to remove
that Dimension filter so we will remove
that and then the next one we what we
are going to do is whatever the values
which are getting in the function set
selected ID uh we'll be doing it table
doget data source. set Dimension filter
and this is the model name and then
selected ID to select selected ID is the
argument which is getting passed now
this is the function and when we run
this application it will not work right
now as well we need to do one more extra
step for that what we will do we we will
go to this drop down measures and on
select of this script we need to call
this function fun which we have
written we will write the functions
which we have just written which is set
measure and we will pass the value of
the dropdown which is we are going to
select for this we will select
dropdown do get selected uh key so
whatever the value which we are uh
passing to the drop down that will be
passed to set measure filter now uh in
this set measure filter once this it
will come in this function of argument
and then it will be set to that
particular table as a dimension filter
so this is how it will work now let's
try to run this now we can see initially
it is a gross margin if you select some
other measures from here you can see
means this gets populated with this
original sales price so this is
something which is we we can do with
this filtering of the drop down we can
do similarly to this chart as well by
chart filtering as well from the drop
down as well we will we can do multiple
selections on the drop down measures as
well so we will see that in next videos
so in this video we will see a scripting
difference between analytics cloud and
Luma designer or designer Studio M we
all know that there is a scripting uh
available in Luma designer and design
studio and there is a scripting
available in analytics Cloud as well but
what is the difference between theage
this is important to understand mean
there are some uh basic differences uh
in this uh scripting
yeah this is uh some of the differences
listed here the first one is lumira
scripts executed on the server me what
are the scripts which is we are writing
in the Luma that executes on the Luma
server we can say however in ARX Cloud
these scripts executes in the browser of
JavaScript engine that is uh it Lumas
scripts executes close to the data
however Antics designer scripts execut
executes close to the
user and in lum is data sources are not
hidden or not bound to any widgets I
mean what wigets are like the drop down
table or charts kind of widgets it is
not associated with that but here it is
currently HED and within data and must
be accessed through G data source so
this is one function which we need to
use to get the data and then once it is
available then it can be used as a
global variables to use in different
different stories or
applications there is one major
difference is of Auto IC type conversion
of the data
types in Lum designer double equals
operator has been used for comparison
operator while in Antics Cloud it
doesn't support this antic type
conversion but which avoids common
mistake and which me before before
running the application only it can be
um check it checks the compatibility of
the comparison operators or the data
types so it is it is include strict
equality comparison operator so triple
equal to operator is the main we need to
use whenever we wanted to compare both
two variables or two data
types so these are some of the basic
differences between the lra designer on
design studio and analytics
cloud in this video we will see about
search to Insight one of the powerful
feature of augmented analytics in
analytics Cloud we will see how to apply
this search to Insight in our
application uh now this is one
application which we already have and I
have just created one button which is
just I have given the text name to show
search to Insight so search search to
Insight is uh one functionality where we
can give our queries in natural English
language and the tool automatically can
come up with different different charts
and crafts uh on the
applications now let's to do this means
there is a search to Insight option
available here where uh we can create
search to Insight uh or we can go
through this and then uh we will write
some script where we will
say uh mode one of the variable we are
going to declare then search to inside
dialog mode so this is one of the in
buil component we can say for search to
Insight and this is the view uh there
are two modes actually for such two
Insight one is simple and one is
Advanced so we can decide mean so
suppose some some of the users are more
advanced then they they can have the
advanced view of this search site while
the end users can just have simple
search to Insight now after we create
mode here then we can write search to
Insight one. open dialog basically uh
when we when we write this so search to
Insight is one function uh component
which we already added here uh search to
Insite from here we can add it and then
for that if we say we have open dialogue
there are some other options as well we
can say apply apply search to chart or
close dialogue get variables open
dialogue set variable value for now we
will say open dialogue and then we have
so we need to specify some
um like um questions so here let's say
is we wanted to say gross margin by
location and then next one is the mode
so already we have selected the mode
maybe it's simple or Advanced or then we
need to mention whether to clear the
search means whenever user is coming one
user is coming he is doing some search
and on the search to site so that that
history is we can clear it for that we
can use true and then Auto search means
automatic search we can make it as true
because it would be helpful for the
individuals to get the next questions
now uh let's try to run this now when we
click on this right now means when we
click on this you can see means the
search to Insite options will be
available you can see the question is
come here and the chart has been already
come here automatically so this is not
Inu we have created or anything it
automatically uh came now there are
other options recommendation for new
search as well me we can get product
sold by product this is also we can get
so these are the some things which are
available and we can we can exit search
to Insight from here or we can just
delete all these search results and we
can again start uh basically uh we can
type some other questions as well like
this it is search now uh this is a
simple mode and now we will see what is
advanced mode uh now advanced mode is
one thing which is
here if you just select advance advance
now let's means what is the difference
on this now when we click on this show
search to inside here you can see when
we say advanced mode there is show some
details like model is been s shown here
uh bed on use sample model this is one
model it has been because it has been
shown and if you click on this it will
show up all the measures and dimension
when the users like some of the users
are like more advanced who can
understand the models and their measures
and dimensions as well they can select
see this and then they can get some
reports from here let's say they want to
see the discount that is also they can
get now see you can see gross margin
plus discount it is showing here uh
which is uh on on each of these things
so this can be customized mean based on
the users requirement now in this we
have just given the static question here
we can give some other Dynamic question
as well we can add some input Dynamic
input put text as well U for this let's
create a input field here which which
will give some value here where it will
say enter text or enter your question
here means we can type here once we have
this we can just um pass this question
to this search to Insight option now
let's create on this um here so as this
is a static question we we can we can
get this static question from here for
this we can get where question is uh one
of the variable we will create and then
we will say input field do get
value this value we will see and this
question we will pass it here rest of
the options we will keep the same now
when we run this you can see this uh
this question suppose I wanted to uh
type some question here that gross
margin by location and I'm I'll just
click on this search show search to
inside now it will automatically come
for that particular if I just wanted to
uh add some more conditions like I
wanted to buy so this is what uh it this
is what it is to be uh implemented like
this search toite is one thing where we
can add one or more data models to it
when we say this we can add one more
data model and then that would be
available over there suppose we wanted
to have this as well we can just
do this as well you can see uh the
difference show gross margin it is
showing like this uh it shows two data
models now for this so this is the way
me suppose we do have multiple data
models then we can assign that data
models to search to Insite and the users
can make uh the use of it to get uh
instant uh reports graphical reports on
this uh we can export this as a CSP from
here as well mean if you want and then
uh
that can be utilized for the next
purpose so that's it from this search to
Insight component of the augmented
analytics let's learn some of the
administrative task about sap antic
Cloud where we in this video we will see
defining users teams roles and security
this is a theory Concepts where I will
be going to tell you about what all
things which we need to consider while
we uh understand the administration and
users and security the very first thing
is uh when when we say about any
business we should be uh considering
users who are going to use so if there
are different types of users then teams
then roles and security so sap antic
Cloud uses sap Cloud identity as the
default authentication method and single
SI non authentication is also available
where it can identify provider can be
compared using SML 2.0 protocol SCP
antic Cloud provides basic user
management including creating deleting
and changing and role assignment we can
also import user data from CFC file for
active directory and if you want to
synchronize users with other systems or
maintain users in the batch
mode we can have user management create
delete change and search where you can
see this is one of the screenshot which
says displays different different users
with their first name last name and then
the display name they have email ID and
all their roles as well so roles are
important to understand means who can be
admin who can be end user who can be the
developers who can be just uh bi admin
kind of things what are their licenses
as well which can be spr there so it all
comes on under the security and users
user role uh creation and approval role
creation which can request roles uh
suppose someone wanted to Grant some
access for some of the modification of
the stories or some other changes to
their access they can request loads all
default roles will be selected and can
be deselected if you are requesting
default roles a user can select which
Self Service role to request user can
enter comment for on approver so when
user regist a request he can or he or
she can provide some comments to the
approver and request notification will
be sent to the approver upon completion
of the
dialogue there are some other functions
where password creation or reset
password is also means it's a basic
things which we need for admin admin
person this this is important then he
can do role management different types
of role uh creation deletion of the
roles and assigning roles rights what
are the Rights created create delete
read read uh access rights that is also
important execute who can execute who
cannot execute who can maintain that
kind of uh rights also it can be
provided by the Admin
person let's learn how to uh perform
Administration task this is a theory
Concepts which is related to the
administrative task where I'll be going
to cover different things let's say
first Administration task first is
Define data access in model basically
whenever we create any models so who can
access that particular model who can see
what level of details that can be
assigned on the model what are the model
privacy set when the it is created it
needs to be have the role include data
access levels as well so this is
important to set the privacy of any
models because there may be model
different different models which you may
not be wanted to see some different
users so in the business it can be
possible there are different different
types of users and their data access
level should be different so in that
perspective we need to set our prior
privacy for the
models so that can be done from this
privacy settings for that particular uh
model where if it is on then we can see
me or can give different different
accesses as this
then Rite for property in dimension it
can apply to all models that use these
Dimension One model can have more than
one data Access Control enabled
Dimension access defined in the on
hierarchy node will be propagated to its
descendant but will be over written if
another access if defined on a lower
level node it can right include read
access right control of the publication
and right access is only for
planning access management this is one
screenshot it shows how to do the access
management and how the data is shown in
the report you can see what is the read
write permission so for these particular
Dimensions measures there is some who
can read so these are some of the users
name given those only can see otherwise
they cannot see it in the
report and they don't have any right
permission as well so this can be set
specified for this uh users and you can
see how this report data can be is shown
here which is just a read it cannot be
edited kind of
Moree model bra based privacy settings
as well we can assign filters to be
defined on any property of the dimension
in the model whenever we create any
Dimension you can see here there is an
option where it can specify the uh
filters for that particular
Dimension there are different
permissions which we need to consider
full access read access update access
delete access new documents new folder
full access means it they can do
everything read access they can just
read it update means they can update the
model delete means they can delete the
model uh new documents mean they can
create new documents or new folders as
well they are able to create so these
are options available where it can you
can see here if they are checked then
that means they have the access other if
you don't want to give the access then
it can be not the next one is teams in
uh s so in team is a group of users so a
user can belong to multiple teams if a
role is assigned to a team then all
members of the team can inherit that
role each team has a team folder which
can only be accessed by the users in
that team so team is very important uh
there may be uh if you create one team
which is of same kind of users Suppose
there are 10 users who are who need same
kind of access then we can create a team
of that particular 10 users and then
assign access to that particular team
only so that all the accesses which has
given to that team that will be
inherited to the users and that team so
this is very useful so better to create
a team whenever for the common types of
users how to create team there is there
is a security and then teams and once
the teams screen is open there is an
option to create a team here and then we
can create team and then we can add
members from here where we can search
for different different members and can
add it
here what are the best practices for
assigning roles to teams uh we can
assign users to teams we can assign
roles to teams as well so this is
important when we assign users to teams
and assign roles to teams that means
what are the roles which is assigned to
that particular team that will be
assigned to that particular users in
that particular team so this is useful
to manage or maintain later when we
wanted to add or remove any of the users
from a particular team that would be
useful to do that what is the content
deployment guidelines when we deploy
anything means from one one one model we
wanted to deploy to other
systems then what are the guidelines so
as antic Cloud supports easy export and
import of content to and from file mean
it is a very easy export we don't need
to be writing any code for deployment
it's just easy things if there are a
dependencies between the content the
dependent content is automatically
selected unless it is a location
Dimension if you have your enrichment in
your model basically what are the
dependencies uh it can be automatically
selected point of Interest data is not
exported point of interest is another
component in the S which is not exported
exported only public content can be
exported you cannot import old exports
into newer touns so this is important to
understand mean about the old versions
and the new
versions content deployment uh when we
do content it's just a simple deployment
option is there in the menu of the
santic cloud and Export we can export
then we can decide what type of things
which we need to export So Stories what
are the in the public folder which which
is there that can be only deployed to
other
things there are some audit logs as well
which which is useful to trace the logs
of the particular file so whenever we
wanted to see different different locks
of of a particular uh deployment things
which we are doing that kind of locks
will be uh tore in these lock
files then lastly we can see system
usages which type of which model is
taking more time or which which has
taken more uh usage or memory of this
that that can be displayed in the in
this screen where uh you can see some of
the models has more memory like you can
say 17 MB or something some of the very
slow small very small that can be
displayed it here and some of them are
very
small it is useful for the performance
perspective where we can see which model
is taking more memory when we wanted to
uh improve the performance of the system
in this video we will see about some of
the administrative features which is in
the sap Antics Cloud uh we will see how
to create users how to assign roles to
different users how to create teams uh
then how we will see some of the
administrative performance of the models
uh system usage and all those things
practically to do this means you can go
to this uh uh menu and you can see
security and security we have users team
roles request data changes and all those
things let's see is what are the
different users available here now when
we say users there are different
different users and when we can create
our own users a new users suppose we
wanted to give access to some other
users as a new user then we can do that
by clicking on this new users and we can
see that uh create a new user uh this is
let's say 1 2 3 this is one of the user
ID and we can say uh this is a test uh
user as so we can give that and uh we
can we need to give the email ID as well
because that is what we needed it
uh let's say this is one of the email ID
uh then manager if you have anything
mean then we can give the manager's name
here mean it would be uh useful for when
we wanted to approve uh the request for
the access uh we can give roles so roles
is important thing is what type of user
it will be will it be these are the
different different roles which is
having like you can see application
created which is having analytics
designer access bi admin will have
administrative P full privileges uh then
there are bi content creator uh bi
content viewer only then PR predictive
admin predictive content created and we
can create our own U role as well which
is here I have created so we can give
that as well and we can just say that I
wanted to make it as a developer this
way we can do it and then we can uh save
it so this is this is the way but we
will see how to create roles now so when
we say users instead of users we can
create a different teams and in teams we
can say we we can add different users
teams are required means when we have
similar kind of users who are uh who are
suppose developers or just R bi content
created then we can create some similar
groups suppose we wanted to have we have
end users who are just going to view the
stories for them we can just create a a
group or team and then uh in that team
we can add all the end users who just
view the storage say create one the uh
thing and we can add some users from
here and then just uh click team uh the
main usage of the team is just when we
create a team whenever we wanted to give
an access to or the roles to the
particular users then it is better to
give in the team uh so that it would be
uh useful me and it will save the time
as it now when the other option is roles
roles are important means what type of
uh users so depending upon the users
users role or users function
functionality or what what type of work
they can do we we can create uh the
roles so basically there are like here
you can say there are
six roles already available as has given
first one is application um designer
privilege and suppose we wanted to
assign any users in that we can create
it assign that with the help of this
means you can see these are the access
for each of the each of this role me you
can see uh different different name here
and you can say create read update
delete execute these are the different
options available and based on this we
can see me see suppose what type of
users fall in this particular category
so that that we can uh give it here now
once we create teams there are and roles
uh so we will see other roles as well
here the admin is having administrative
privilege full privileges uh content
created create and update privileges uh
viewer is just having read privileges
predictive admin will be having having
full privileges then predictive content
creator so predictive admin is more of
related to the predictive models I think
me and then predictive content creator
as well predictive models and stories
custom roles we can create our own new
role mean instead of let's see how how
to create it we can give some test Ro
name and license type business
intelligence if you have any other like
planning then we can create that as well
and then uh out of this we need to
choose what type of roles mean suppose
out of this only we we need to select
but if you wanted to give some something
special uh then we can give it uh
selecting blank and then means we can
give so here we can say that this user
will be having access to only anti
models uh he can create read and update
models but he cannot delete the models
so this is also option uh we can give
and he cannot maintain
so such type of things there are many
things currency planning model then kpi
role you can say data change log life
cycle so it depends on all the
requirement and when the users are being
created and what type of users they are
based on their business role or business
functionality they are doing we need to
assign this and we can assign the users
from here as well assign users to this
particular
uh role suppose we we have uh we have
this assign roles we can we can just
give this to particular this um team
which is
there now the other thing is about uh
request so this is also important to um
same is if there are any new role
request suppose you are admin person who
are looking after all the users access
and roles creation the other end users
or the other business users can request
some roles so they can their request can
be seen it here and mean then once you
can select then you can approve it and
then can grant access on this then there
is deployment is also possible mean this
is also very simple mean suppose we
wanted to deploy anything means anything
we can uh make it as a export and then
we can add it here suppose we wanted to
add something which is uh like exporting
like Dimensions or connections or
anything this so we can uh select
this and then means or any specific
thing me we you wanted to uh remove then
we can uh remove it and then click on
export now once export Suppose there are
some other things like UT as well means
from other users you you have got
something then you can uh import it from
U there as well mean by giving some uh
files and then last one is about the
system performance or system things
which which is there where we can see
different different system usage who are
using the systems and what are the
different active users you can see
historical usage uh so how much is the
usage for this um you can see one month
3 month 6 month year to date as well
suppose you just wanted to see one month
then we can see we we wanted to see for
all we can see that as well so this is
the number of active users and these are
number of logins so who how
how many logins are done so if there are
many users then we can see means how the
system is performing and it is useful uh
at that time then system uses by storage
as well means how much storage the
models or storage are taking so you can
see used by model so these are the
models size you can see 8.42 MB is the
maximum here so all of them are like
this and then system storage uses by
user so if there are hundreds of users
and we wanted to see the performance of
the system then we can do this by by the
help of this
suppose some particular user is
consuming more memory then we can look
into that as
well system users usage by user tracing
this is a
lock uh log of this systems so whatever
it is
in this video we will see various data
wrangling features in the model when we
acquire the data and when we try to
create the data means we can manipulate
our data based on our requirement there
may be some type of data which which is
not in the correct format we wanted to
split some columns we wanted to extract
some data then that type of functions or
operations we can perform on the data so
I have created uh just this model I have
just imported one Excel file uh in the
in while creating the model and we will
see how what are the different so when
we get this model we can see when when
we click on this any of the options any
of the columns uh we can see um there is
an options uh we um we can either
replace some value with some other but
there is another option which is create
transform where we can see concatenate
split extract replace and change so when
we say concatenate means we we can
concate two columns suppose we wanted to
create one a separate column which says
state and city I wanted to concatenate
and we wanted to put some uh for put
some character in between those so that
we can do with this type of so you can
see me another column which is got
created here and which say state and
city and state name is has been
concatenated and you can see me there
are different
addresses like phone number or Street
number State these will be storing in
the separate separate column then that
that columns we can combine in a single
column so that for that we can use this
concate options then uh we can see some
other transforms as well where we can
see split so suppose we wanted to split
something which is uh we can say that we
wanted we have some uh qu data which is
coming in a concatenated way in in the
in the data then we can split this
column with with the help of some
characters so we can split with this D
limiter which which is a comma in this
column we wanted to split with this uh
St and if you wanted to repeat like
means suppose this is repeat one two
means we wanted to repeat three means
wanted to create four Suppose there are
four commas four values which is there
which is separated by comma then we can
see like this now suppose I will show
you how this works now suppose we I have
another value which is here I wanted to
replace this with value with with this
one n and I'm some other
country and some number so this is what
I'm going to replace now uh you can see
me this values has been replaced with
this and now we wanted to apply the
transform function which which will
split based on this
column comma operator now we can say
split with the help of comma you can see
first
uh first word before the comma comes in
the second and if you wanted to apply in
multiple columns like uh let's say means
we have three or let's say two then
second will come after this like here
you can see mean three if you say three
then test country and 1 2 3 has been
splitted out like this we we can see
this has been applied here so this way
we can split out this column values
which which can be extracted and we can
put it in a separate columns as well so
this is this is also can be a
requirement where we need to do this
let's see the other options which is
extract so now if you have some um some
columns which you just wanted to extract
some value the other feature is about
extract where we can extract suppose we
wanted to extract uh after space from
State one after first occurrence of
where we can say extract number or
extract
word after or we can give some other
operators here after before between
containing equal to First occurrence
first or last occurrence of space now we
wanted to split for the space then we
can do this you can see means once we do
this you can see after the first space
or after the first occurrence of the
space space whatever the word it is
there we can get it we can make it
as before as well means before the space
as well we can extra the word and
Suppose there is no word then we can get
this as well so this is what we can do
it now uh the other transform is about
replace replace is just we wanted to
replace something so replace matching
value Suppose there is a blank value
which you wanted to replace with
something which is saying as null if
there is a space then we can replace
with the null values like this now the
other one is change so this is also just
a change of upper case to lower case we
can make it as lower case or upper case
or title case as well so this is also
useful when we wanted to present our
data in a formatted way we can do this
these are the some of the transform now
there are other options as well here
which says remove duplicates as well
Suppose there are duplicate rows then we
can duplicate this rows as well if there
are any duplicate rows so it will show
up what are the duplicate rows has been
there so this these are the some of the
options which are available so these are
the some of the options available um for
the transformation of the data wrangling
and this is useful when we have large
number of data and which comes in a
different formatted ways and we wanted
to have some specific type of data for
our story build so that's it from this
video I hope you you have understood
this if you have any question then
please uh do let me know in comment
section if you like my video then please
like it and subscribe to my channel as
well thank you for watching in this
video we will see about creating
hierarchies in the model and how to use
this hierar hierarchies in the stories
that we are going to use so let's try to
create one model uh first where we will
be selecting one uh Excel file I'm just
importing this Excel file which is
having some sales related data and we
will be creating a hierarchy on product
and category so there are two columns
which we think means on in a
relationship like parent child kind of
relationship they are having and we will
be creating hierarchies based on that
and then we will use this so once we
have C imported this Excel file now we
can see there are different types of
data here available and you when when we
say there are product and category these
are the two columns so there are some
products which falls under some category
and that we can have a parent child
relationship or hierarchies when we just
select this column and then to create a
hierarchy click click on this add
Dimension attribute once you say this we
can mention this parent child hierarchy
and we can once we click select that we
can select the parent means what is the
parent of this particular column so we
do have category which is the parent for
this column
you can see it
here once we select this you can see the
icon of this column has been change
which says hierarchy this way we can
create hierarchy there is a this is a
parent child hierarchy we can create
level based High hierarchy as well like
you can say country State uh city as
well which uh which we we can have like
state city or store uh this kind of uh
relationship also we can uh build it
once we create this hierarchy we will
just create this model and by just
clicking on this create
model now once uh we have created this
model we will just access that model to
create to create the story and we will
select that
model and we will go to uh see in the
story how it works so now if you say me
I just uh created this story and will
just add one uh one chart
which says take the horizontal like
column bar chart which is there and uh
which says we we just want you to see
the gross margin and
discount and we will just add the
dimension as well for this
here which we are going to add is this
product because that is what we wanted
to select now if you if you see this
product now if you just click on this
you can get an feature of drilling
Drilling L on this which is available
here we can go through drill down to the
next product like you can see the first
it will appear as a category so this is
uh three different categories which are
there and we can go uh through this here
uh as a drill down or we can just click
on this hierarchy icon here and we can
say that go to Next Level this way we
can uh see the how hierarchies are
working and this is useful when we
wanted to build uh
drill drill down or drill up kind of
data means to explore the possibilities
of the data in the OR analysis of the
data in terms of displaying the data in
different different visualization charts
this way we can use these hierarchies in
the analytics Cloud I hope this will be
helpful for you if you have any
questions then please put it in comment
section if you like my video then please
like it and subscribe to my channel as
well thank you for watching
