i'm going to start this video with two
assertions assertion number one any
excel data analyst that wants to
differentiate themselves in the job
market needs to acquire predictive
analytic skills
assertion number two acquiring those
predictive analytics skills is probably
far easier than you might think this
video is a short guide for any excel
data analyst to start the journey of
acquiring predictive analytic skills
that can be used in a broad range of
business scenarios and only requires
basic excel skills just in case you're
wondering i want to be crystal clear on
this point to use the techniques i'll be
talking about in this guide you do not
need advanced math skills you don't need
to write super complicated formulas and
you don't need to write any vba code the
tools and techniques that i will be
covering in this guide are accessible to
any motivated excel data analyst
regardless of role and background so
let's go ahead and get started what i'm
going to do is i'm going to flip over to
powerpoint and we're going to talk about
the first idea that we need which is
what are the two families the two
general types of predictive analytics
that we can implement using trustee old
excel
so the first thing that you need to know
when you get started with predictive
analytics is that there are two general
types or two general families of
predictive analytics techniques the
first of which is called regression and
regression is pretty simple essentially
it is a predictive model a predictive
analytics technique where the thing that
you're trying to predict is a number
it's a measurement so think of anything
with a decimal point in it height weight
sales
you name it anything that you can
measure in the business world that is a
regression predictive analytics problem
and not surprisingly there are many many
scenarios where regression is useful for
example revenue forecasting
that revenue has a decimal point in it
this is a regression problem marketing
mix so how much should we spend on
digital advertising versus television
versus radio advertising marketing makes
also decimal points right money has a
decimal point in it progression problem
price and cost modeling
customer lifetime value regression is
wildly useful and arguably
regression techniques are some of the
most common if not the most common
predictive analytics techniques
in use
and that includes by the way not just in
the business world but also in the realm
of science now in the business world you
actually see that regression is useful
don't get me wrong it's absolutely
useful however what you tend to see is
the next family has more prominence than
you see in science and that is
classification classification is a
predictive analytics technique where
instead of trying to predict a number
what you're trying to do is predict a
label so for example male or female as a
label bronze silver or gold as a label
another way to think about this is that
classification
is all about predicting a state your
state of being are you male or female
the state of your
olympic medal bronze silver or gold as
opposed to predicting a measurement as
opposed to predicting a number like you
in regression now in the science world
classification isn't nearly as prominent
as in the business world because as you
might imagine the number of scenarios
where you're trying to predict a state
in business analytics is extremely
common some scenarios where this is
typically done is for example fraud
detection let's say you work for a
credit card company what is the
predicted state of this authorization is
it good is it a legitimate transaction
or is it fraudulent churn prevention
we're trying to figure out the future
state predict the future state of a
customer are they going to leave our
company for somebody else that's known
as churn conversion modeling is somebody
coming to our website what is our
prediction for their future state are
they going to be a customer are they
going to spend money with us or are they
going to abandon their shopping cart on
our website and lastly warranty claims
as well often these are a fraud scenario
is this a legitimate warranty claim or
not that sort of thing so not surprising
classification is super super useful
these are the two general families of
predictive analytics regression
and classification and in the next slide
i will be covering techniques for both
regression and classification that you
can use inside of excel and once again
like i said previously but it bears
repeating the techniques that i'll be
talking about are very easily
implemented now there's a couple things
i should mention before i move on to the
next slide and they are
one time series forecasting is out of
scope and if you don't know what time
series forecasting is don't worry about
it because obviously it doesn't matter
however if you're familiar with time
series forecasting that is a very
specialized form of regression and it's
not covered in this particular video
however you can do time series
forecasting in excel using
out-of-the-box functionality if you're
interested in having me maybe create a
video about that just let me know in the
comments below the video and next up i'm
going to be
a little heretical with this two-family
framework here of regression and
classification i'm going to talk about
two techniques that i would argue are in
the regression family well actually i'm
going to talk about one technique that's
in the regression family and then one
technique that's in the classification
family and some people might disagree
with me on that and that's totally cool
this is my video so i'm going to be a
bit heretical so i'm going to talk about
five techniques in this video two
techniques in regression three
techniques in classification and to kind
of put these in some sort of context for
you as you begin your predictive
analytics journey i'm going to use a
scale i'm going to use a spectrum of
quote-unquote easy and quote-unquote
difficult and just so you know this is
not a hard and fast spectrum it's very
qualitative and it's just something i
made up for the purposes of this video
so that you get some sort of sense of
the five techniques which ones are the
most easy to use generally speaking and
which are more difficult to use so the
things to consider along the spectrum of
easy to difficult are three items that
you want you want to keep these in mind
so first up is the implementation in
excel as i've said everything in here
can be implemented using like tables of
data common functions
and out of the box excel functionality
so overall all of the implementations
for these five techniques in excel are
easy however
some are a little bit more involved than
others and i will talk about that next
up is the conceptual requirements for
you
now as i said you're not going to need
to learn any complicated math you're not
going to need to learn any coding to do
these things however to use the
techniques effectively you have to learn
them and some of the techniques have
more things to learn than others any
professional can do it because i've
taught all these techniques to people
before anybody can do it and then lastly
and maybe most importantly is this idea
that
if you use a predictive analytics
technique and you find something
interesting in the business and you want
to communicate it to decision makers
what are the conceptual requirements on
them
the decision makers to understand what
you have done that's also another thing
to consider in fact arguably it might be
the most important thing to consider
overall so all three of these things are
going to be wrapped up together along
this spectrum as they talk about each
individual technique so first up let's
talk about regression and this is where
i'm getting a bit heretical with the
framework here because i'm putting
process behavior charts in the
regression bucket and a lot of people
might disagree with me on that and
that's okay but let me explain to you
what these things are these are
very powerful graphical techniques for
looking at numeric data over time for
example maybe your sales figures or call
volume in your call center and then it
allows you to create predictions based
on the historical data in a very
specific kind of way and let me give you
an example let's say that you're you
create a process behavior chart around
inbound calls to your customer service
center and let's say you've got
12 weeks of data and each week is
essentially one data point which is the
total volume of calls coming in each
week
the chart would allow you to create
based on the historical data an estimate
of the range of values for calls that
you would see roughly
eighty percent of the time and that
would give you a range let's say on
average over the 12 weeks you got a
thousand calls a week and the process
behavior chart tells you 80 of the time
you're going to get between 900 and 1100
calls per week since that is a
prediction that is also a number that's
why it's in the regression camp now the
reason why this thing is so cool is that
it is
super super easy to implement in excel
no fancy calculations really at all you
get a chart as the end result and then
you interpret the chart the conceptual
requirements on you to use process
behavior charts is exceedingly simple it
is so so easy to use these charts and
not surprisingly as well using the
charts to communicate with your decision
makers is also extremely easy this is
one of my favorite
favorite predictive analytics
and business analytics techniques bar
none next up the second technique that
we're going to talk about in the
regression space
is linear regression
this right here if you're not familiar
is probably the single most used
predictive analytics technique in the
world bar none
that includes both the business world
and the science world so linear
regression can be done in excel
using the analysis tool toolpak add-in
and it provides you a
user interface that allows you to click
things around and set everything up and
it runs the linear regression for you so
that part is easy the reason why linear
regression is sitting right here in this
qualitative spectrum is because it is
more difficult for you to use as a data
analyst and it's also more difficult to
communicate the findings to your
business stakeholders as compared to
process behavior charts now once again
you don't need to know any complicated
math excel does all the math for you
however you have to learn how to
interpret the models and you need to
learn how to evaluate whether the models
are legitimate and once you've done
those two things you then have to then
communicate properly the findings of the
model to the decision makers and those
are all more complex more complicated
than process behavior charts now the
upside is linear regression is also
arguably more powerful than process
behavior charts because if no other
reason process behavior charts only work
with a single type of data for example
your calls coming into your call center
whereas linear regression can work with
multiple pieces of data at the same time
so here are two very powerful predictive
analytics techniques these are awesome
techniques easily implemented in excel
and any professional can do it sorry to
interrupt the slideshow i know you're
probably really disappointed about that
but i did want to mention that if you're
interested in learning more about the
techniques that i'm talking about in
this video check out the description
below the video there'll be links to
other youtube videos where you can learn
more about these techniques also if
you're liking the content if you think
it's useful if you wouldn't mind helping
me out with the youtube algorithm and
just smash that like button that would
be awesome that just tells the youtube
algorithm that this is good content and
that other professionals like yourself
might benefit from watching the video
let's go ahead and get back to the
slideshow and talk about classification
as promised there are three techniques
that i'm going to talk about in the
classification space and the first one
is market basket analysis also known as
association rule mining this is
wickedly powerful stuff now once again
this is a bit heretical there would be
many folks who would argue that market
basket analysis is not a
classification technique doesn't matter
let me tell you what you can do with
market basket analysis market basket
analysis allows you to take a table of
data and you can take one of the columns
on your table of data and you can tell
market basket analysis hey i want you to
determine
everything else using all the other
columns of data which combinations
of these columns of data over here are
highly associated with this thing that
i'm holding steady over here what i'm
holding between these two fingers right
so for example let's say that you work
in the grocery store industry and you're
highly interested in knowing what other
products in the grocery store when
purchased are highly associated with
mayonnaise let's say
i'm just totally making this up right
mayonnaise so not surprisingly probably
things like bread and cheese and mustard
and all the things in the united states
that we use to make sandwiches because
mayonnaise is a very common thing we put
on sandwiches but notice it doesn't have
to be a grocery store product this could
be whether or not a customer is going to
convert to paying yes or no it could be
whether or not a particular feature and
a software product is going to be used
yes or no so you'll notice that that
becomes a state prediction a label
prediction exercise so market basket
analysis is awesome the great news is
that it is really super simple to
implement in excel using the solver
which is an ad in excel that so the
implementation is quite easy the
conceptual requirements for you as the
data analyst are also quite easy and
most importantly once again
the findings that come out of market
basket analysis are wildly easy for
decision makers to figure out to
understand and let me give you an
example so let's say that you use market
basket analysis
and the thing that you are
holding over here the thing that you're
trying to predict let's say you're in
the hr space is whether or not an
employee is going to quit and then what
you do is use all the other columns of
data and say which of these behaviors of
employees are most highly associated
with an employee acquitting and what you
get back is a metric called lift and
what it tells you is how many more times
likely is this particular employee to
quit based on the other characteristics
so let's say for example 2.3 times more
likely to quit think about that for a
second how easy is that for anybody to
understand if employee xyz has these
three characteristics over
here they're 2.3 times more likely to
quit than somebody else
super super easy this is powerful stuff
i use market basket analysis all the
time and i know how to use more
sophisticated predictive analytics
techniques however i tend to use market
basket analysis mainly because one it's
super easy it's very effective and i can
communicate findings to stakeholders
very very easily next up is something
called naive bayes and i don't expect
you to understand or know what naive
bayes is don't worry about it this is
something that will resonate with you
i'm pretty sure naive bayes is a classic
classification technique for
implementing spam filters
right so an email comes in to your
hotmail or your yahoo or your gmail
account whatever it might be and
automatically gets sent to your junk
folder or your spam folder that is
usually some form of naive bayes or
maybe something a little bit more
sophisticated but in the old days they
were definitely based on this naive
bayes classification technique so
there's another way to predict state yes
or no is this piece of email
ham quality email good stuff legitimate
email or spam stuff i don't want in my
inbox so naive bayes is also very easily
implemented not as easily implemented as
market basket analysis so it's a little
bit more difficult it requires a little
bit more
knowledge on your part to use it
correctly and then communicating the
findings is also a little bit more
complicated to stakeholders however
you'll notice that conceptually in this
framework here of difficulty it is still
easier than linear regression and then
lastly we have another
super super common predictive analytics
technique
which is known as logistic regression
notice they both have regression here
however the thing to remember is that
logistic regression is designed to
predict yes no
states positive negative broad legit
legit fraud excuse me a statistician
might argue with me and say dave
logistic regression isn't a
classification technique but it's okay
for our purposes this allows you to
predict states now out of all five of
these this one is the most difficult
because you have to implement logistic
regression yourself
using the solver for whatever reason
microsoft has decided not to put
logistic regression in the analysis
toolpak unlike logistic or linear
regression which is in the analysis
toolpak so you have to implement it
yourself it's not super difficult but it
is most the most difficult thing out of
all of these five to implement with
using out of the box excel it also has
the most difficult conceptual
requirements on you
because of the way the model works
and because you also have to implement
the things yourself the calculations
yourself and then lastly
interpreting a logistic regression model
for business stakeholders
is the most difficult of these five
techniques and i won't go into the
reasons why that's they're a little bit
mathy it doesn't really matter for this
video however all five of these
are eminently approachable to any
motivated excel data analyst
just maybe start with these two up here
and then move down
as you need process behavior charts gets
gets what you need done great use that
if market basket analysis gets what you
need done great and then maybe you move
to linear regression if you need
something a little bit more powerful in
process behavior charts and it might be
that you don't need anything more
powerful than market basket analysis in
the classification space so if you're
still watching the video right now i'm
assuming that you're interested in
learning more about how you can apply
predictive analytics in your work using
excel so i'll put up a couple of my
tutorial videos right here and here and
you can learn how easy it is to
implement predictive analytics in excel
and up your data analysis game that's it
for this video until next time please
stay healthy and i wish you very happy
data smoothing
