here is a basic example of how machine
learning can be used for predictive
maintenance
let's say that I have an electric motor
and I have installed two vibration
sensors on this motor now let's say that
at a random point in time I see that the
value for sensor a is 2 and the value
for sensor b is 3. then a few minutes
later I see that the value for sensor a
is 3 and the value for sensor b is four
a bit higher but still kinda in the same
rate right I repeat this measurement a
few more times to get a few extra values
or data points using these data points I
can see some sort of a model for
vibration of the motor in normal
operation mode
now if I see a value outside of this
area I can easily say that there is
something wrong with the motor
this is how I can use a simple machine
learning technique to predict if the
motor requires any maintenance
speaking of machine learning I have some
exciting news for you realparts has
recently formed a partnership with Edge
impulse which is one of the best
in-class machine learning Platforms in
the world and based on this new
partnership real parse and Edge impulse
are going to team up to create new
courses and videos on new machine
learning Technologies for all of you
engineers and technicians active in the
world of Industrial Automation so stay
tuned for all those new courses and
videos soon and if you want to learn
more about Edge impulse you can head on
over to their website over at
edgeimpulse.com We'll add a link to
their website in the video description
as well and that's all thank you very
much for watching this video and I'll
see you in the next video
[Music]
thank you
