hey everyone in this video we'll be
talking about NLP in the next 10 minutes
so what can you expect from this video
what's in it for you first we'll give
you a basic understanding of NLP we'll
tell you why we need NLP and we'll talk
about what NLP exactly is next we'll
look at NLP pipelines NLP pipelines
cover the basic processes involved in
text passing in NLP which means
converting text to a form suitable for
machines to understand as humans would
understand it and finally we'll talk
about some real world applications of
NLP which are all around us and a lot
more common than you might have realized
so let's get started so what exactly is
NLP before we talk about NLP let's talk
about how humans talk and interact with
each other humans communicate with each
other mostly via speech or text to
convey your intent to someone you may
directly talk to them or send them a
message the human way of communicating
is known as natural language around the
globe many languages are spoken and
messages are shared virtually every
single day all these conversations
feedbacks and messages are data in
themselves this data is extremely
valuable as it can give us customer
information and insight into human
sentiment
however this data is not useful to
computers as it is not in a form that
can be understood by machines machines
communicate using ones and zeros and not
via words they cannot understand English
French or Spanish only binary and this
is where NLP comes into the picture NLP
stands for natural language processing
natural language processing is a branch
of artificial intelligence that deals
with the interactions between humans and
computer
using the natural language the ultimate
objective of NLP is to read decipher
understand and make sense of human
languages in a manner that is valuable
and to build systems that can make sense
of text and perform tasks like
translation grammar checking or topic
classification NLP basically is the task
of processing written forms of languages
and making a computer understand them
companies are increasingly using NLP
equipped tools to gain ins sites from
data and to automate routine tasks a
sentiment analyzer for instance can help
Brands detect emotions in text such as
negative comments on social
media NLP at the end of the day is
nothing more than accumulation of
artificial intelligence computer science
and the human language the next topic
that we'll be looking at are NLP
pipelines so what exactly are pipelines
a pipeline is a set of data process
processing Elements which are connected
in series where the output of one
element is the input of the next one it
basically represents the various steps
which have to be taken in our
computation and the order in which they
occur in this pipeline we are going to
be passing our data parsing means
converting our data from one form to
another in this case we are passing our
input Text data to a file which can be
understood by a computer the text is
first broken into segments and the
segments are then converted into even
smaller
tokens the word stems of all of these
tokens are found followed by finding the
root words of these stems in a process
known as
lemmatization we will then recognize
which part of speech the word belongs to
which means if the word is a verb a noun
or a pronoun and finally we will
separate the instances of everyday
popular entities
from our words to better understand what
the sentence is trying to convey the
final file that we'll get will be a file
which will be understood by a computer
segmentation the first process of a
pipeline is segmentation now what
exactly is
segmentation sentence segmentation or
text segmentation is basically dividing
the given text into logically
decipherable units of information we
divide the sentence into its constituent
sub sent sentences usually along the
punctuations like full stops or commas
or along line breaks and Page components
for HTML files dividing a document into
its constituent sentences allows us to
process it without losing its Essence
and the necessary information that it
contains in this case let's consider a
sentence the lemonade quenched her
thirst but not her longing after
sentence segmentation we are going to
divide the sentence into two the first
sentence is going to be the lemonade
quenched her thirst and the second one
is going to be but not her longing the
next step of our pipeline is called
tokenization tokenization is nothing but
the process of dividing a sentence into
its constituent words the sentence that
is given to us will be separated and all
the words in the sentence will be stored
separately this is done so we can
understand the syntactic and semantic
information contain AED in each sentence
thus we decipher the relevance of a
sentence by analyzing it word by word
thereby making sure that no loss of
information occurs the computer does not
understand punctuations and special
characters hence we can remove any
punctuations and special characters
which may occur let's take a part of a
previously segmented sentence over here
let's consider the lemonade quenched her
thirst after tokenization we are going
to separate every single word in this
sentence so after tokenization we are
going to get five different tokens the
lemonade quenched her and thirst all of
these are going to be treated as
separate entities after tokenization we
perform stemming stemming is a process
of obtaining the word stems of a word
word stems are also known as the base
form of a word and we can create new
words by attaching a fixes to them in a
process known as inflection St is a
process of recognizing the word stems of
individual words this is done by
removing affixes such as in s ed etc for
example consider our sentence jump jump
is the word stem of various different
words like jumping jumped and jumps if
we remove all of these affixes we will
get our basic word stem which is Jump
this is basically what we want at the
end of stemming the next process in our
pipeline is called lemmatization
lemmatization is the process of figuring
out the root form or root word which is
nothing but the most basic form also
known as the LMA of each word in the
sentence lemmatization is very similar
to stemming where we remove word a fixes
to get the base form of a word the
difference is that the root word is
always a word which is present in the
dictionary but the root stem may not be
so lemmatization uses a knowledge BAS
Base called word net let's consider
three different words went going and
gone at the end of the day all of these
words have originated from a single word
which is go in this case go is our Lemma
all the other words which are derived
from go can be traced back to it the
next part of a pipeline is called part
of speech tagging part of speech tagging
is a process of converting a sentence to
different forms it can be a list of
words or a list of
tuples the tag in case of is a part of
speech tag and signifies whether the
word is a noun adjective verb and so on
we are basically splitting our verbs
into their grammatical components to
understand the meaning of any sentence
or to extract relationships and to build
a Knowledge Graph part of speech tagging
is a very important step as the same
word can have different part of speeches
in different
sentences for example let's consider
this sentence give me your answer in
this sentence answer is a noun but if
you consider another sentence answer the
question over here answer will be a verb
using part of speech tagging we can take
our different tokens and find the
different part of speech that it belongs
to in this case the is a determiner
lemonade is a noun quenched is a verb
her is a pronoun and thirst is a noun
the final step in our NLP pipeline that
we are looking at here is nothing but
named entity recognition named entity
recognition also known as named entity
identification entity chunking and
entity extraction is a subtask of
information extraction that seeks to
locate and classify named entities which
are mentioned in unstructured text into
predefined categories extracting the
main entities in a text helps us sort
unstructured data and detect important
information which is crucial if you have
to deal with large data sets the
subcategories that we are considering
are person whether the named entity is a
person whether it's a quantity like
kilograms a
location an
organization the name of a movie or
whether it's a monetary value like
dollars or euros
so far we've looked at what NLP is and
how we can perform natural language
processing but what are some
applications of it and where is it used
in the real
world one of the applications of NLP is
in chatbots chatbots can help you solve
issues while performing natural language
generation in other words they can hold
a conversation in plain English a
chatbot is nothing but a software
application which can be used to conduct
an online chat CH conversation either
through text or speech in place of
providing direct contact with a life
human agent you might have seen those
talk to one of our agents section on
websites those are usually chat Bots a
lot of companies also use WhatsApp chat
Bots to make the process seem less
mechanical another application of NLP is
speech recognition probably the most
popular example of NLP in action are
virtual assistants like Google assist
Siri and Alexa natural language
processing understands and translates
the human language like Hey Siri where
is the nearest gas station into numbers
making it easy for machines to
understand they recognize when you are
talking converting speech to text and
understand what you requested over the
years virtual assistants have become
streamlined enough to be able to emulate
human speech patterns almost flawlessly
another application of NLP is
autocorrect
autoc correction also known as text
replacement replace as you type or
simply autocorrect is an automatic data
validation function commonly found in
word processors and text editing
interfaces for smartphones and tablet
computers it acts as a spell check and
corrects any spellings or grammar
mistakes which may arise as you are
typing some language check softwares
like grammarly paper rator reverso and
others can even check how unique and
engaging your articles are and all of
this is done using NLP now this brings
us to the end of this video on NLP in 10
minutes we hope that the video was
useful to your journey to learning NLP
to learn more about natural language
processing and related topics you can
check out the simply learn website which
is linked in the description below to
keep learning with fun interactive
videos do subscribe to the simply learn
Channel thank you for watching and keep
learning
[Music]
hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learn YouTube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos to nerd up and get certified
click here
