python has more than 400 000 packages
but if you want to build a career in
data science you better know these eight
python modules that you'll be using very
frequently as a data scientist so let's
start with the first one which is numpy
if you're manipulating huge volume of
sequential data and if you're using
python list then your life is going to
be slow
for that reason you need numpy which
provides n dimensional array object that
is very very memory efficient and fast
as well it also provides so many
ready-made built-in functions that you
will be using often for your needs I'm
going to provide you a reference of
numpy tutorial playlist which even a
high school student can understand it
easily the second one is pandas pandas
is built on top of numpy array and it
provides fast and memory efficient
tabular data structure called Data frame
now if you are doing exploded data
analysis or machine learning you will
have to use pandas go check any jupyter
Notebook on Kegel most of them are using
pandas already now let's say you are
doing Simple weather analysis and if you
use plane python for that you will have
to write 70 lines of code and the same
thing can be done in five lines in Panda
so it's super convenient I have
explained that in my very first video in
pandas tutorial playlist on YouTube
which received more than 2 million views
so check out the free YouTube tutorial
playlist Link in the video description
below the next one is matplotlib or
seabon you can use one of these
libraries for doing data visualization
let's say as a data scientist you are
doing exploratory data analysis now you
want to find outliers or you want to
just visualize some data patterns or
maybe you want to plot a confusion
metrics after your machine learning
model is built for all of these purposes
matlord lib or c bond can be extremely
useful they are very very popular in
data science Community once again there
is a playlist for this then comes
Scrappy or beautiful soup again you
don't have to use two libraries you can
use one of them and these are used for
web crowling now if you look at any data
science project the first step in that
project is always data collection you
can collect data either from your
organization or you can buy ready with
third-party data but often users see
data scientists do web scraping they go
to internet it and they scrap different
websites for collecting the data and in
Python's capping beautiful soups are the
two main libraries for this purpose then
comes our 800 pound gorilla called
psychic learn if you want to do
statistical machine learning
classification or regression you have to
use scikit-learn it has become the de
facto library in the entire data science
Community without the knowledge of
psychic learn it will be very very hard
to get a data scientist job once again
here is a machine learning playlist
which has received more than 5 million
views and this playlist contains the
theory coding and exercises deep
learning is a sub domain of machine
learning where you use neural networks
to solve variety of problems such as
image classification cats versus dogs
that's boring baby Yoda versus dog
language translation recommendation
engine autonomous cars and so on
tensorflow from Google and pytorch from
Facebook are the two prominent libraries
for doing deep learning once again for
tensorflow here is a free playlist which
has received again a huge on number of
views and that contains Theory coding
and exercise Spacey is the next one it's
a library used to solve natural language
processing or NLP problems so if your
data scientist who are working
specifically in NLP domain then you need
to know this there are data scientists
who don't touch NLP problems in that
case it's okay to not have knowledge on
this Library the benefit of this library
is that it is very good for beginners
very user friendly syntax and you can
get started pretty fast there is another
Library called nltk which people
sometimes use along with space a but
with Spacey there are so many features
which are inbuilt and you can get going
pretty fast you'll notice that the data
scientists working in NLP domain will be
using space c NLP and they will be using
sometimes pytos tensorflow Etc along
with these libraries so most of the time
if you're solving any NLP problem you
will be using variety of libraries but
PC seems to be the most popular among
all once again here is an NLP playlist
along with Theory coding and exercises
and this playlist uses Spacey as a
library the last one is opencv which is
used for image processing so if you're a
data scientist working in image
processing domain then you need to know
this opencv Library provides many
ready-made functions for doing image
processing such as let's say you want to
increase the quality of an image and you
want to use adaptive thresholding you
can write few lines of code in opencv
and there you go the quality is improved
once again similar to Spacey data
scientists working in image processing
domain will be using many other
libraries along with opencv so they
might be using pytorch tensorflow Etc
along with opencv to solve a given
business problem now if you don't know
python I have a nice python course on my
website codebasics.io and in that course
we have completed end-to-end project
which is using opencv numpy pandas and
many other libraries which I have
mentioned in this particular video so go
check it out there are many videos in
that particular course which are
available for free and you can read the
course reviews as well I hope you found
this video to be useful if you did
please share it with your friends who
are trying to build a career in data
science if you have any questions that
is a comment box below
thank you
[Music]
