foreign
python is the most widely used
programming language today when it comes
to solving data science tasks and
challenges python never ceases to
surprise its users most data scientists
are already leveraging the power of
Python programming every day
it's an easy to learn easy to debug
widely used object oriented open source
high performance language and there are
many more benefits of Python Programming
python has been built with extraordinary
libraries for data science that are used
by programmers every day in solving
problems Master Python and other core
data science topics to help you
Kickstart your data Journey with a
professional certificate program
delivered in partnership with Purdue
University and IBM this data science
certification features master classes by
Purdue faculty and IBM experts exclusive
hackathons and AMS sessions by IBM
experts this course covers tools and
techniques like numpy pandas Python and
sci-fi along with industry projects like
uber Transport service provider Amazon
e-commerce and Retail in Walmart
choosing this course can get you hired
in renowned companies like Netflix
Amazon Facebook Adobe and average salary
hike of 70 percent so what are you
waiting for join the data science
professional certificate program and
Excel your candidate data science the
link is in the description box below if
getting your learning started is half
the battle what if you could do that for
free visit scale up by simply learn
click on the link in the description to
know more
now before talking about top python
libraries let's take a look at what a
library is python has produced a number
of Open Source libraries each with its
own root Source a library is a
previously combined set of code scripts
that may be utilized iteratively to save
time now in contrast to languages such
as C plus plus or C python libraries are
not context specific now a library in
this context refers to a collection of
essential components a library is a
collection of modules that can be
installed with the help of a package
manager such as pip now that we know
what libraries are let's take a closer
look at some of the most popular
libraries in Python first on the list we
have numpy numpy is an open source
python Library used for scientific
Computing and data analysis it provides
powerful numerical and mathematical
functions that enable efficient
computation of large multi-dimensional
arrays and matrices numpy is an
essential library for data manipulation
and Analysis in fields such as machine
learning image processing and scientific
Computing now some of the key features
of numpy include multi-dimensional
arrays numpy provides a powerful
n-dimensional array object that can be
used to store and manipulate large data
sets mathematical functions numpy
provides a wide range of mathematical
functions that can be applied to arrays
and matrices as well including linear
algebra Fourier transforms and random
number generation numpy is widely used
library in a data science and machine
learning communities and is often used
in conjunction with other libraries like
pandas scikit-learn and tensorflow
second on the list we have pandas pandas
is an open source data manipulation and
Analysis library for the Python
programming language it provides easy to
use data structures and data analysis
tools for handling and manipulating
structured data panels provides two main
data structures one is series and other
one is data free now a series is a one
dimensional label array that can hold
any data type while the data frame is a
two-dimensional label data structure
with columns and potential of different
data types some of the key features of
Partners include data cleaning Partners
provide tools for cleaning filtering and
transforming data such as filling
missing values removing duplicates and
replacing values data manipulation
pandas provide powerful tools for
manipulating data such as grouping
merging and reshaping data integration
with other libraries pandas integrate
with other popular libraries such as
numpy scipy and scikit-learn to provide
a complete data analysis and machine
learning environment pandas is widely
used in data science and Analysis and
are particularly useful for working with
tabular data such as data in CSV and
Excel files next on the list we have
matplotlib matplotlib is a python
Library used for data visualization it
provides a wide range of tools for
creating graphs plots charts and other
visual representation of data it is a
highly customizable library that allows
you to control every aspect of
visualization you create you can
customize the style color size
appearance of elements such as lines
markers access titles and legends it
also offers several types of plots
including line plots Scatter Plots bar
plots histogram plots pie chart and many
more
matplotlip is built on top of numpy
which makes it easy to work with arrays
and other numerical data matward lib
also integrates well with other python
libraries such as pandas for data
manipulation sci-fi for scientific
Computing and c-bond for statistical
data visualization
fourth on the list we have scikit-learn
scikit-learn also known as sklearn is a
popular open source machine learning
library for python it provides a wide
range of algorithms and tools for
building and evaluating machine learning
models
scikit-learn is built on top of numpy
scipy and matplotlib which makes it easy
to integrate with other scientific
Computing libraries in Python it
provides a comprehensive set of tools
for various machine learning tasks such
as classification regression clustering
dimensionality reduction model selection
and pre-processing it also includes
popular algorithms such as decision
trees random Forest support Vector
machines logistic regression K nearest
neighbors and many more scikit-learn
provides a consistent API for all
algorithms making it easy to switch
between different models and algorithms
scikit-learn also provides a wide range
of pre-processing tools for cleaning and
transforming data such as scaling
normalization and feature extraction
fifth on the list we have Scrappy the
next one python libraries for data
science is Scrappy Scrappy is one of the
most popular fast open source web
crawling framework written in Python it
is commonly used to extract data from
web pages with the help of selectors
based on XPath and talking about its
application Scrappy helps in building
crawling programs that can retrieve
structured data from the web
Scrappy is also used to gather data from
apis and follow a don't repeat yourself
principle in the design of its interface
influencing users to write universal
codes that can be reused for building
and scaling large crawlers sixth on the
list we have Keras similar to tensorflow
Keras is another popular library that is
used extensively for deep learning and
neural network modules Keras supports
both tensorflow and piano backends so it
is a good option if you don't want to
dive into the details of tensorflow
talking about such features Keras
provides vast pre-labeled data sets
which can be used to directly import and
load it contains various implemented
layers and parameters that can be used
for construction configuration training
and evaluation of neural networks next
in the list of top python libraries for
data Sciences pytorch which is a python
based scientific Computing package that
uses the power of Graphics processing
units pie torch is one of the most
commonly used preferred deep learning
research platforms built to provide
maximum flexibility and speed
talking about its application pie torch
is famous for providing two of the most
high level features first one is tensor
competitions with strong GPU
acceleration support and building deep
neural networks on a tape-based
autograph system eighth on the list we
have beautiful soup beautiful soup is
the next python library for data science
this is another popular python Library
most commonly known for web crawling and
data scraping users can collect data
that's available on some website without
a proper CSV or API and beautiful soup
can also help them scrape it and arrange
it into required format now beautiful
soup is widely used in web scraping
applications and is considered as one of
the most popular and Powerful web
scraping tool available in Python
ecosystem next on the list we have Pi
game pie game is a set of python modules
designed for writing video games it
provides functionality for working with
Graphics sound and user input as well as
tools for handling events and timing now
python game is built on top of the sdl
library which provides a low level
interface for accessing hardware and
input devices some of the features
provided by pi game include support for
2D Graphics rendering including image
loading and manipulation Sprite handling
and drawing Primitives support for
playing sounds and music including
playback control and volume adjustment
support for handling user input
including keyboard mouse and joystick
events pygame is often used for
prototyping and developing small to
medium sized games as well as for
educational purposes its ease of use and
flexibility makes it a popular choice
for game development beginners and
hobbyists and finally on the list we
have Tiano Tiano is a python library for
numerical computation designed for deep
learning and machine learning
applications it allows users to Define
optimize and God's mathematical
Expressions which includes
multi-dimensional arrays the fundamental
building blocks of many machine learning
algorithms now talking about features
theano is designed to efficiently
perform numerical computations on both
CPU and GPU which can significantly
speed up the training and testing of
machine learning models piano provides
automatic differentiation functionality
making it easy to compute gradients and
optimize parameters while training
machine learning models and some of its
applications are scientific Computing
simulation optimization and deep
learning in addition to these top 10
python libraries for 2023 there are many
other helpful python libraries ones that
deserve to be looked at if you are
interested in learning and mastering
data science with python head on to
Simply learns professional certificate
program in data science do explore the
frequently Asked data science interview
questions and unlock your career as a
data scientist thank you for watching
this video and don't forget to check
this course link from the description
box below till then stay safe and keep
learning
hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learned YouTube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos turn it up and get certified
click here
