[Music]
foreign
and welcome to today's video on python
libraries related to data science I have
a question for you dear friends and the
question is are you a data science
Enthusiast and a part of a python
ecosystem are you wondering about the
different python libraries to improve
your efficiency how are they roughly
differentiated into various sub domains
and you don't want to miss out any of
the important python libraries then you
have reached the right place now before
we dig deep more about into learning
python libraries for data science do not
forget to hit the Subscribe button and
click the Bell icon so first we are
going to start with python and its
feature then we are going to discuss
about applications of python moving
ahead we are going to discuss about
libraries related to data mining then we
are going to discuss library is related
to data processing analysis and modeling
and at the end we are going to conclude
our session with libraries related to
data visualization
so let's start with python and its
features python is a most used
programming language in data science
python has many advantages over other
programming languages like it is easy to
debug it is object oriented it has high
number of active developers it is open
source and when it comes to data
analysis and data visualization python
libraries sit way ahead of many other
languages
now let's discuss the applications of
python python provides a number of
useful libraries and these libraries
help in numerical analysis statistical
analysis data modeling data
visualization and whatnot
these libraries assist in various
domains like data mining data processing
analysis and modeling and data
visualization
now we will look into some of the most
important libraries and the first
process is the data mining now if I want
to discuss about the libraries related
to data mining the first process in data
science is getting the data from the
various sources onto the system
so that is data mining so first we look
at the libraries that is used in Data
Mining and the first one is Scrappy
Scrappy is an open source Library which
is used for data scrapping it is used
for developing crawling programs to
extract the structured data from the web
it can also be used to extract you know
data through apis
I hope so it's clear to you what's the
use case of Scrappy in data mining
the next Library we have is Beautiful
soap Beautiful soap is another python
Library which is used for data scrapping
and extraction
the library gets its name that poorly
marked up web pages are often called tag
soup therefore the library is known as
the Beautiful Soul
it is far more flexible than any other
scrapping library in Python
the data scrapped through Beautiful soap
can be arranged into various formats and
not into only CSV
now after the data is collected we
process the data for analyzing and
modeling purposes so the first Library
which we are going to discuss is the
numpy
if I talk about numpy numpy stands for
numerical python as the name suggests it
helps in analyzing the numerical data it
contains an array package this contains
a multi-dimensional and extremely
powerful array object
numpy also provides various functions
and operations that can be performed on
the numpy arrays like add remove reshape
indexing Etc
numpy forms a base for other or more
complex libraries like pandas scipy and
scikit-learn the next library is pandas
if I talk about pandas pandas is an open
source library that is made mainly for
working with relational or labeled data
or both easily and intuitively
it provides various data structures and
operations for manipulating the
numerical data and the time series data
this library is built on the top of the
numpy library
pandas is fast and it has high
performance and productivity for users
if I talk about the advantages of using
pandas are the first one it is fast and
efficient for manipulating and analyzing
the data data from different file or
objects can be easily loaded
there is a easy handling of the missing
data which is represented as NAB and
floating Point as well as non floating
Point data then the factor comes up is
the size mutability columns can be
inserted and deleted from the data frame
and they are also higher dimensional
objects
data set merging and joining is also
present
it provides time series functionality
and finally it is a powerful Group by
functionality for performing split apply
combine operations on data sets
now many of you would be wondering why
pandas should be used for data science
pandas are generally used for data
science
this is because pandas are used in
conjunction with other libraries that
are also used for data science it is
actually built on the top of the numpy
library which means that lot of
structures of numpy are used or
replicated in pandas the data produced
by pandas are often used as input for
plotting functions of matplotlib
statistical analysis in scipy and
machine learning algorithms in the
scikit-learn pandas program can be run
from any text editor but it is
recommended to use Jupiter notebook for
this as a Jupiter given the ability to
execute code in particular cell rather
than executing the entire file if I talk
about the Jupiter Jupiter also provides
an easy way to visualize pandas data
frames and plot
I hope so now you would have got answer
that why pandas is used for data science
with that let's move to the next Library
our next library is tensorflow
if I talk about tensorflow tensorflow is
also an open source Library
which was created by the Google brains
team at Google
for their internal research
now tensorflow is also a python friendly
open source Library which is generally
used for numerical computation that
makes machine learning and developing
neural networks faster and easier
machine learning is actually a complex
discipline but implementing machine
learning models is far less daunting
than it is used to be and thanks to the
framework such as tensorflow
tensorflow can train and Run Deep neural
networks for handwritten digit
classification image recognition the
word embeddings recurrent neural
networks sequence to sequence model for
machine translation and natural language
processing
it is also based on simulations best of
all tensorflow supports production
prediction at scale with the same models
which are used for training it also has
a broad library of pre-tained models
that can be used in your own projects
but the question is seeing this picture
you would be wondering how does the
tensorflow works tensorflow allows
developers to create data flow graphs
which are structures that describes how
data moves through a graph or a series
of processing nodes
each node in the graph represent a
mathematical operation
and each connection or Edge between the
nodes is a multi-dimensional data array
or a tensor
tensorflow applications can be run on
most of the any Targets that is
convenient which is a local machine a
cluster in a cloud an iOS device or the
Android devices the CPUs or gpus
if you use Google's own cloud you can
run tensorflow on Google's custom
tensorflow Processing Unit which is the
TPU
I hope so you would have got idea about
tensorflow now let's move to the next
Library which is kiras
if I talk about kiras kiras was also
developed by Google
it also runs on the top of tensorflow it
acts as an interface for tensorflow
Library
is built for fast and hassle-free
experimentation on the neural networks
it provides a good option so if you
don't want to Deep dive into tensorflow
then you can use kiras for your projects
now let's discuss the next Library which
is pi torch
if I talk about Pi torch it is also an
open source Library which is developed
by Facebook for developing and testing
machine learning modules
pie torch expertise lies more in deep
neural networks tensorflow and pytorch
are the major competitors of each other
whenever you use deep learning
Technologies like object recognition
text recognition face recognition or
chatbots there is a high possibility
that the architecture was developed by
either pytorch or tensorflow
now let's move forward and discuss our
next Library which is scipy
scipy stands for Scientific Python it is
used for complex scientific computations
it is built on the numpy library it is
extensively used for scientific and
Technical operations like calculus
linear algebra differential equation
integration and statistical computation
I hope so you would have got idea
regarding the use cases for scipy
now let's discuss our next Library which
is related to data processing analysis
and modeling and our final library is
the scikit-learn
scikit-learn is actually built on the
top of many familiar libraries like
numpy pandas and scipy it mainly focuses
on data modeling scikit-learn is used to
create models for predictive data
analysis I hope so you would have got
idea regarding the use cases for the
scikit-learn
so after the data is processed and
modeled it is time to visualize the data
to get the important insights out of it
therefore now we will see the libraries
related to data visualization and our
first library is the matplotlib
if I talk about matplotlip it is used
for data visualization in Python it
provides all the necessary graphs and
charts for univariate and multivariate
Analysis it is used to create industry
standard and publication standard plots
matplotlib contains an object-oriented
API that can be used to integrate plots
and charts into applications
I hope so you would have got idea
regarding the matplotlip now let's move
forward and discuss our next Library
which is C bone
if I talk about C bone it is built on
the top of the matplotlib library as it
is built on the top of matplotlib it has
higher interface level and provides
cleaner plots than matplotlib for
visualization
it contains set of different built-in
themes it provides extensive plots like
heat Maps pair plots that are used for
multivariate analysis I hope so you
would have got idea regarding c bond
now let's move forward and discuss our
final library for data visualization
which is bokeh bogey is fully
independent of matplotlib bokeh is used
to create interactive plots in the
browser using JavaScript widgets like C1
bokeh to assist us in creating complex
visualization but at majorly focus on
interactiveness its interactive
functionalities help in creating complex
visualization like dashboards Network
graph Etc
now after all discussing the libraries
related to data visualization analysis
and modeling and also for numerical
computation
I have come to certain conclusion that
there are thousands to lack of python
libraries available in the ecosystem
today and the list only covers the most
popular and the most know libraries also
we covered the most important libraries
from all domains to give you a brief
idea about the areas of your interest
these are the libraries which are used
by professional to work on the
day-to-day basis you got a good
understanding of how these libraries
function with each other and also how
more complex libraries are built upon
the core ones there are many more
complex libraries that you can read
about
sky is a limit of knowledge and you can
learn more and more as far as your
interest
that's all for today's video I hope so
guys you enjoyed our today's video on
python libraries for data science
if you want to make a career in data
science then intellipat has IIT Madras
advice data science and AI certification
program
this course is of very high quality and
cost effective as it is taught by IIT
professors and Industry experts
foreign
