hello everyone and thank you so much for
joining in and welcome to video record
webinars so team today it's an
interesting session on machine learning
so we'll be discussing about the python
libraries for data science that you have
to know in this current year so this is
the updated list so we'll go through one
by one today
so the agenda for today's session is
like this so we'll understand what
exactly is Python and then we will look
into the important features of python
which makes it so popular and so famous
of the reason that it is and then we
will look into the libraries that you
have to learn for data science in the
current year and we'll also have a quick
hand transition about this topic of data
science so that's the agenda for today's
session so let's proceed ahead and let's
get started
so let's start by understanding the
Python programming language now when we
talk about this python see this python
is a programming language which has been
created by a person called Judo one
erosum so this was created in the year
of 1989 and the Python programming
language our the name python was
actually inspired by the Creator's
favorite show that is the create an
emails Monty Python so that's where the
term python was actually used I mean
when he started thinking about creating
a programming language actually and here
this best part about this Python
programming language is
it's a general purpose high level
interpreted language with easy easy
syntax and dynamic semantics
so at that time before python one of the
common issue that we had with other
programming language was it was
difficult to write so the reason it was
difficult to write because it's not
something it is very difficult to type
it's because there were a lot of rules
there were a lot of rules which were
being involved in the other programming
languages
that was one of the main reason so the
syntax was very difficult maybe to give
you an example at the end of every
sentence maybe you have to use a
specific symbol or there are certain set
of rules that you have to follow in
order to write a computer program so
what used to happen was as a beginner
when you started to use that programming
language in your project
most of the time were actually involved
in fixing these syntax issues rather
than working on the real problem
so that was a challenge that were being
faced at that time so hence he decided
to create a programming language which
is easy to write easy to create easy to
write the program with less syntax rule
to learn for so this would in turn
enable the people to focus more on
problem solving rather than working on
the rules and this python is a
programming language which it has got
some of the key ideas like key benefits
of this programming languages one it is
open source that means you can use this
python interpreter for free and you can
make the changes you can also publish
your own version you can use it for
industry purpose or everything is for
free and it has got an amazing Community
Support so whenever you have got any
question you can post your query in the
stack Overflow and the other famous
famous sites where you can get the help
from the community which is very active
community of python and python has a
very large standard Library using which
you can actually get the library and use
it in your program to complete the
projects on time and it is it supports
the object-oriented programming
structures which is the classes and
object and it's an easy to learn
programming language because it has got
the easy syntax and the way that you
would write the program it is very
simple and you can anyone can start
coding it in an easier manner so that's
the main idea about this Python
programming language
and here when we talk about this Python
programming language it has some of the
other important features so let's look
into the important features of Python
programming language one important
feature is its Simplicity it is designed
so that as I mentioned you can think
more of a code that means think more of
the problem that you are trying to solve
rather than thinking about the syntax or
the rules that's one of the important
feature and that's one of the main
reason where the data scientists prefer
to use Python programming language
because when we talk about data science
it's all about generating the insights
from the data set now when you want to
get more information out of the data set
it would make sense if you spend more
time with the data rather than the rules
isn't it so that's the main idea right
now so which we're using this you can
think more of a code and less of a
syntax
that's the key important feature and
here this is an open source which means
it is free for everyone to use
it is portable so it can be written in
one computer and executed in the other
computer without any issue so as a
result of this the sharing of code is
very simple when we talk about the
python codes
and it is admittable and the extensible
so it allows the code from other
programming languages like C C plus plus
can be embedded into this Python program
so that certain functions can actually
be performed so as a result of this this
would make the python even more powerful
and this python is a interpreted
programming language and the best part
is the memory management the CPU so all
these things will be handled by python
itself we don't have to worry about it
and it does in a pretty good way and the
python has a huge Library support
it has called huge headset of libraries
like numpy for numerical array data type
and we have got matplotlib in c bond for
creating the visualization we've got
pandas library for the data processing
so we've got various libraries that we
have got which will help us in solving
the problems in a better way
and this python is based on object
oriented programming structure so as a
result of this this will help us to
break down the complex problem into the
code with the help of the security so
that it can obtain the better solution
so here when we talk about the
object-oriented programming structure
where we'll be dealing with the data
types of classes and the objects so
that's the overall idea about this
object oriented programming approach
and when we talk about this libraries so
let's have a look into the important
libraries for data science when we talk
about this Python programming language
the first and the important library that
we generally use it whenever we are
working with the data we see pandas
Library it's a library
which is written in for the Python
programming language and this is
specially used for data manipulation and
the analysis that is the main idea right
now it will help us to perform the data
go to perform the analysis in an
effective way and this library is well
suited for various types of data set so
it is suited for the tabular data it is
suited for ordered and the unordered
time series data and even this would
work for any other types of
observational or the statistical data as
well so it is suitable for various types
of data set and this is the most
commonly used Library when we are
loading the data set because this will
help us to load the data set in a
structured format which will enable us
to perform the analysis on top of it
so that's the main advantage of using
this python that is the pandas Library
okay the next library that we have got
is the numpy library so numpy is a core
library that we have got for scientific
computing
so when we say scientific Computing so
one of the key thing that we want to do
whenever we are working with the data
set is we want to perform the operation
it could be as simple as multiplication
or it could be any complex mathematical
operation that we want to perform on the
data set now at that time okay at that
time so here having a library which will
help us to compute that calculation in a
better way will make our life easy
because the calculations will happen in
a much better in a much better and an
efficient way that's the overall idea
and the importance of this numpy Library
okay and then
we have got the address Library okay so
when we talk about this panel sorry we
are talking then we have got this
matplotlib library now when we talk
about this matte naughty Library
so this is actually a package that we
have got for creating the 2D plots so
here we use it for creation of various
types of plot depending on the data that
we are working we've got bar graph we've
got histogram chart we've got scatter
plot we've got pie chart we have got
hexagonal pinchard area plot so these
are the various types of plot that is
supported by this matplotlib library and
we choose the relevant type of plot
depending on the type of data that we
are dealing with
okay so generally when we are working
with this matplotlip Library we'll be
importing the matplotlib especially by
directly importing the its pipelot
module so you will import people
importing the matplot tube Library as
import matplotlib
dot Pi plot as PLT then the we will
definitely call the various other
plotting function the reason that we
import this pipelot module because all
the plotting functions are available
inside this Pi plot module that's the
main idea of importing this mat.lib
library and then we have got selenium so
selenium is a package or a library which
we generally use it to automate the web
browser interaction with the help of
Python programming language
so with this Webdriver API binding so we
can actually write the code in the
Python programming language and we can
perform the action and that means we can
actually perform the automated testing
with the help of the selenium Webdriver
by running the web testing on the
various browsers
moving on the next library that we have
got is opencv Library so opencv is a
python Library which is designed to
solve the computer vision problems
so here when we talk about the opencv so
open EV array structures are converted
to and from the numpy arrays
here this is the library which is well
known for computer vision based task so
whenever we are working with the images
or the video data you'll definitely
start using this opencv library and yeah
that's about the opencv libraries it's
basically we use it whenever we are
dealing with the visual data on our
number five we've got the Sci-Fi Library
so scipy is a free and an open source
python library and this is also used for
scientific Computing and Technical
computing
now this scipy library has various
built-in functions which we can use it
to perform the direct scientific
Computing it has got Advanced scientific
Computing functions which we can use it
and apply it on the data set we don't
have to create those function or Define
those mathematical operation it is
already available by default that's the
advantage of using this scipy Library
and the next library that we have got is
the scikit now the scikit library
psychic learn library is one of the
important Library when it comes to the
data science here
this scikit Library we will we actually
call this as
the machine learning library for the
Python programming language
now this scikit-learn has got the
machine learning models for various
tasks like classification
regression as well as the clustering
algorithm so these are the common types
of algorithms which are supported out of
the box from the cyclic Library you can
check out the documentation page as well
so and it's not just the models all the
other helper functions like splitting
the data set into two parts or
performing the pre-processing like the
one hot encoder standard scalar and any
mean Max scale so all the required types
of data transformation that we want to
do it is supported and once the model
has been trade when it comes to the
evaluation it has got the variation
functions for regression as well as
classification to name a few rmsc MSC R2
score which comes under the irrigation
and under the classification we've got
Precision recall F1 score classification
report
so we have got these various metrics and
all these are supported by scikitlan
Library itself
this Library which is an open source you
can also publish your own model or you
can create your own custom model by
making use of the concept of subclassing
from the model class
okay these are some of the important
features of this scikit-learn Library
moving on we've got the spark Library so
Pi spark so the pi spark is also known
as the spark python API it actually
exposes the spark programming model to
the Python programming language
so that's the importance of Pi spark
Library
and we've got a library that's called as
Django so Django is a pythmic framework
and this is a framework which provides a
structure and the common methodologies
to make the life of a web application
developer a much easier one for building
the flexible scalable and maintainable
web application
it's a high level and it has got the MVC
mvt style architecture and it's a web
framework which is written for quick and
Powerful programming Python language and
it has got the open source collection of
libraries for building a full
functioning web application that's the
importance of this angle Library
and on number one we've got the
tensorflow so tensorflow is a python
Library which we generally use it to
implement the Deep learning neural
network
here when it comes to the computation
the computation will happen as a data
flow graph where we can switch on the
data flow and every operation that we
perform on the data set will be
remembered so by remembering the
operation we can also take the gradients
that means we can go backward and
extract the gradients and using the
gradients we can update the parameters
so these are some of the important
libraries that we have got and Python
programming language now to give you a
better understanding about this Python
programming language so let's take up an
example uh task of the machine learning
and you will be able to understand how
easy it is to work with the same so I'm
going to launch a new notebook
see for showing you the demonstration
I've got the code already written so
here we've got a given data set okay I'm
going to execute all the cells
okay so what we are going to do is if
you look into this scenario I'm already
importing two imported libraries numpy
library and the pandas library now using
the pandas Library so as I've mentioned
we generally use the pandas library to
load the rate asset and work with the
data set and even in this scenario I'm
using the pandas library and
specifically the function of read CSV
function to read the file and create it
as a data frame object which is a data
type of pandas library and not just
creating the data frame we can also
modify the data set as well for example
in this scenario okay so we have got the
columns uh that means like a column
called unnamed 0 and I'm dropping that
column that means I am removing this
column from the data frame
and we can make use of the head function
to display first few entries of this
data frame
and here we have got the other inbuilt
functions to check whether we have any
missing values in our data frame and in
our case we have the missing value count
as 0 which means
we do not have any missing values in our
data set now that's a good thing
now once we have done the analysis maybe
if I want to create any visualization at
that time I'll be making use of the
matplotlib library
now once I've done the basic analysis on
the given data set next we'll proceed
ahead and apply this data set on a
machine learning model now as I
mentioned the library that we'll be
using is the scikit-learn library for
all the machine learning models so here
to get started so I'm splitting my data
set and inside this scale on the design
kitlearn Library we've got a function
that is called as the trained split
function
so this is a function which will help us
okay so this will actually help us in
splitting the data set into two parts
okay so this is about this will split
the data set into two parts
and then once we split the data set into
two parts so this is X and Y so so then
we will use the split data and apply it
on the machine learning model now in
this example I'm importing the machine
learning of linear regression and once
this is imported okay what we are doing
next is we are performing the fit on
this given data set
now as I mentioned python is an
object-oriented programming language I
am importing a class and once I'm
importing the class I'm creating an
object for that class
and I'm calling the object method of it
okay that is the reason that you see it
in this way and then once we have
performed the fit so the attributes of
that object we can display to understand
the overall working of the model
now here in the scenario I'm importing
The Matrix Matrix will help me to
evaluate a machine learning model now as
I as you can clearly see I'm using the
evaluation metric of R2 score which is
available inside the scikitlan Library
itself
I'm importing the metrics
I'm gen I'm finding the R2 score and in
this scenario the R2 score is
0.5888 and not just that this also has
the mean squared error and when we find
the mean squared error value it is
10.617 and mean absolute error is
2.57 so like this we can go ahead and
perform the analysis on the data set by
making use of all the important
libraries that are available to us in
Python programming language and not just
that here we have done the Improvement
so instead of using a single data we are
using the multiple data and we are
working with this data set and here in
this example I'm importing the c bond
library mat.lib library in order to
create the visualization and this
visualization is called as heat map
which will help me to understand the
relationship between two variables
so in this way the various libraries
will be used whenever we are working
with the data set
okay so this is about the introduction
to the important libraries that we have
got in Python programming language and
how it is used and the importance of the
same whenever we are writing the code
okay folks so with this we come to the
end of today's session thank you so much
everyone
and all the very best I look forward to
seeing you next time
