want to bring math and art together
let's generate an animated Mandel BR
fractal using python I'll show you how
first we import the libraries we need
numpy mat plot lib and Funk animation to
animate the fractal this function
calculates the mandal BR set by
iterating over complex numbers if the
absolute value of Zed exceeds two we
stop and return the number of iterations
next we Define the generate underscore
fractal function which creates a grid of
complex numbers and applies the mandal
BR function to each one then we set up a
live update function to animate the
fractal growth at each iteration finally
we call Funk animation to animate the
fractal in real time watch how the
fractal comes to life with every frame
you can play with the color map and zoom
in for more details and that's how you
can create an animate fractals in Python
try it out and explore the beauty of
math and code like share and subscribe
for more cool coding tips
