the worst part about being a front-end
developer is developing uis which also
happens to be 100% of the job web
developers have tried to make things
easier with countless UI libraries like
bootstrap material and so on but
recently Shad Cen the hottest UI
framework in the front-end World
recently released a major update that
makes it way overpowered and it's
nothing like you've ever seen before the
only way I can think to describe it is
like if Ruby on Rails and Skynet had a
baby who grew up and got jacked on
steroids and then got into front-end web
development when I started this channel
back in 2017 my goal was to make
tutorials like this Facebook style Emoji
reaction thing the code for that video
took the better part of a day but now I
can build an even better one in like 30
seconds in today's video you'll learn
how to build a custom front-end website
faster than ever but with great power
comes great trade-offs and we'll also
look at the drawbacks of this approach
it is September 5th 2024 and you're
watching the code report last week I ran
a pull about for sale and thousands of
people agree that it's the best for an
incloud this video is not sponsored by
them nor have they sponsored any of my
past videos and that's why I can tell
you that yesterday versell took a pretty
big L when it was revealed that chat GPT
switch from nextjs to remix despite that
versell did make a really good move by
hiring the developer behind Shad CN and
now as we'll see it's tightly integrated
into the versel ecosystem the Shaden is
a component or UI library but it's a lot
different than most other libraries like
bootstrap instead of installing a
massive library of components into your
node modules and importing them you copy
and paste the code for each individual
component into your own project which
allows you to use things all a cart and
makes it easier to customize the code it
sounds chaotic but it's based on
Primitives like radex and Tailwind which
keep things looking consistent pretty
cool but it's killer new feature landed
in the CLI in the form of a component
registry like you can run Shad Cen ad
data table or Shaden ad Carousel to
easily add those components to your
project and it works with all the major
Frameworks but here's where things get
really crazy versell also runs this
service called vzer which is an AI chat
bot for building UI like all you do is
ask for a button and it'll return
something that looks just as good as any
a16z funded startup with a $100 million
valuation if we look at the code though
what you'll notice it's doing is relying
on the existing Shad CN button it then
AI generates some extra Tailwind slot
and the end result is pretty nice that's
not the crazy part though if we click on
this install button up here we'll have a
command to Shad CN add this to our
project it'll automatically copy that
code into our project and bring in any
necessary dependencies and now we have a
cool custom button we can use anywhere
and not just that but these URL can also
be made public to be shared with anyone
and you could even build up your own
standard library of Shad Cen components
if you drink the Shaden Kool-Aid and
then combine it with other AI tools like
co-pilot or cursor you can build uis 10
times faster than you could just a few
months ago and they actually look
halfway decent the end result might look
exactly the same as all your friend side
projects but at least it didn't take you
6 months to build but the AI haters out
there will tell you to never touch any
of these tools they'll make your
programming skills go flaccid and their
garbage code will eventually backfire on
you the but the reality is that just a
few years ago you'd have to solve many
of these problems by going dumpster
diving for code on blogs or humiliate
yourself with a stack Overflow question
but nowadays you have people building
to-do apps in their Teslas in the Ikea
parking lot the AI performance gains are
real but they have to be used carefully
and deliberately to avoid unnecessary
complexity I don't think Tech like this
will replace actual front-end developers
but here's my prediction in the near
future I think developers will care less
about the ergonomics of a framework like
the syntax differences between angular
react View and spell and care about how
quickly and reliably they can generate
stuff like I wouldn't be surprised if we
see a prompt-based UI framework oh wait
a minute it actually looks like someone
already built that this has been the
code report thanks for watching and I
will see you in the next one
