cyber crime is everywhere and does not
favor one person over the next think
about how many devices you use every day
perhaps a laptop tablet and a phone
these three devices are three potential
gateways for cyber attacks with
technology continually advancing Cyber
attack activities have become easier to
carry out so how do cyber criminals get
it right they follow trending stories
and use this to lure you it often
requires you to click on a link enter
your personal information through which
cyber criminals gain access the good
news is that there are cyber security
defense mechanisms that you can practice
and Implement so learning about cyber
security gives you the tools to prevent
cyber attacks cyber security isn't only
valuable for personal safety it's also
in demand at an organizational level
career opportunities in cyber security
include a range of roles from cyber
security analysts to cyber security
engineers and security Engineers with
cyber crime On The Rise the demand for
these roles across all business sectors
is greater than ever with the right
Knowledge and Skills you could be the
next cyber security analyst or security
engineer however maybe you don't have
that specific University degree the
right certifications and hands-on
experience or maybe the cost is just too
high now you have the opportunity to
join us on a Learning Journey that
prepares you for an exciting career in
cyber security this program consists of
several courses that will help you build
the foundational knowledge you need to
succeed in this field and completion
will earn you a corsera professional
certificate this certificate serves as
proof of your job Readiness and can be
shared with your Professional Network
along the way you'll also create work
samples that can showcase your expertise
to potential Employers in addition
finishing this program will help prepare
you for the Microsoft certif C ified
exam
sc900 Microsoft security compliance and
identity fundamentals earning a
Microsoft certification provides
industry endorsed evidence of your
skills and demonstrates your willingness
to stay on top of the latest trends and
demands and stand out in a fast changing
industry you'll begin this program with
an overview of how computers work and
how they are used by businesses this
covers Basics such as Hardware software
and operating systems before expanding
into the specific infrastructure storage
and networking needs of Enterprise
systems this should help you understand
the importance of keeping these systems
secure and'll follow up by exploring the
Cyber thresh landscape that businesses
face and what they can do to protect
themselves you'll be introduced to
common types of cyber attacks how they
are carried out and the impact they can
have fortunately there are ways to fight
back and you'll become aware of
approaches for minimizing risk this
includes strategy from limiting access
securing communication and complying
with security regulations maintaining
security for Business Systems is no
small task and that's why you'll learn
about software solutions that can help
administrators automate a lot of the
work you'll become familiar with Azure
active directory in particular an
identity and access management service
that can be configured to Grant
permissions based on roles and policies
setting up a security plan is one thing
but you'll also need to make sure it
works as intended that's why you'll dig
into testing strategies for checking the
Integrity of your defense system and
you'll also find out what to assess for
compliance with Microsoft's privacy
principles as well as various
International standards this program has
been uniquely mapped to key job skills
required in cyber security analyst roles
in each course you'll be able to
consolidate what you have learned by
completing a Capstone project that
simulates real world cyber security
scenarios you'll also complete complete
a final Capstone project that enables
you to demonstrate your cyber security
analyst skills to round off your
learning you'll take a mock exam that
has been set up in a similar style to
the industry recognized Microsoft exam
sc900 Microsoft security compliance and
identity fundamentals once you complete
the program it's time to start exploring
potential careers and don't forget to
share your corsera professional
certificate to get that extra advantage
congratulations on your decision to
become a differen maker and help ensure
a safer online experience for others now
let's get
started have you ever experienced a
Cyber attack cyber attacks Target
individuals organizations and systems
having an online profile has made life
more convenient by allowing you to
perform transactions for purchases
engage socially or work remotely via the
Internet however it is also put your
valuable data at greater risk cyber
criminals Target your private data
online including your financial
information think about what might
happen if someone steals your social
security number date of birth credit
card information and address this can
make it easy to apply for credit cards
in their name and run up debt being a
victim of identity theft often leaves
you feeling helpless as you scramble to
close or freeze accounts and change your
account passwords there are necessary
security protocols that you can put in
place to keep your personal information
safe and confidential this is known as
cyber security cyber security protects
your digital information devices and
assets such as your bank accounts files
or even photos system protection is
equally important it is a feature that
creates restore points that allow you to
set your devices to a previously
healthier State before changes may have
led to malfunctions or data loss it is
your backup plan
within a business context cyber security
and system protection is essential to
protecting any business from cyber
attacks and
vulnerabilities think about the
importance of protecting staff anonymity
product developments and Innovations
from competitors or even payroll data
the introduction to computers and
operating systems and security course is
designed for anybody that's interested
in learning about cyber security and
system protection within a business
context it establishes a foundation for
anyone's striving to become a cyber
security analyst a cyber security
engineer or a security engineer you'll
focus on identifying the various
components of a computer system and how
the components interact with an
operating system you'll familiarize
yourself with the cyber security
landscape and the various business
Computing environments you'll then gain
some context by unpacking the threat
landscape so that you recognize where
and how cyber crime takes place
furthermore you'll be introduced to
Computing Dev devices and how hardware
and software interact you'll learn about
various operating systems with their
respective advantages and disadvantages
your Learning Journey will continue to
explore Enterprise systems and security
it involves the comprehensive security
framework required by larger companies
or corporations the focus is on servers
storage and backups Computing
environments and the process of
Maintenance and patching next you'll
examine different business software
Solutions you'll draw a correlation
between the appropriate business
software as a solution to a particular
business need you'll learn how email
apps came to exist and how common
functions can boost your communication
and productivity you'll also investigate
Storage Solutions such as large scale
types of data storage data lakes and
data warehouses finally you'll have a
chance to recap on what you've learned
and Zone in on areas you feel you can
improve upon throughout your learning
you'll have an opportunity to apply appy
your knowledge through interactive
exercises and real world examples assess
your progress with knowledge checks and
a practice exam all this prepares you
for the Microsoft exam sc900 at the end
of this program giving you a career
stepping stone in the right direction
good luck as you start this exciting
Learning
Journey this course can help you
jumpstart your career whether you're new
to the field or just wanting to refresh
your knowledge as a seasoned
professional as technology evolves and
becomes more robust with security
protocols hackers also become savier in
their Cyber attack methods by taking
advantage of technological
advancements businesses are required to
increase their security measures to
secure and Safeguard their information
devices and assets because of this
sought after professionals such as cyber
security analysts cybercity engineers
and security Engineers are in demand to
actively anticipate detect and mitigate
cyber attacks or system vulnerabilities
are you intrigued by this career field
and wondering how to get started let's
meet a few candidates and explore their
career paths and how they got started
Alex is currently a successful customer
service representative at a call center
she is a high school graduate and is
well vered in Microsoft 365 applications
she's also upskilling herself with
macros and Visual Basic for applications
to automate some processes in Microsoft
Excel Alex's natural career progression
is to move to a managerial role where
she can receive promotional benefits and
a salary increase however Alex has her
sight set on moving to an IT role within
the digital technological industry she
has identified cyber security as
interesting and her research has
confirmed that specialists in this field
are in demand she favors the career of a
cyber security analyst it'll allow her
to help protect a company's Network and
assets including hardware and software
from cyber attacks she'll be responsible
ible for staying AB breast of cyber
Trends within the threat landscape and
identifying suspicious behavior that may
threaten the company's confidentiality
or damage the devices her plan is to
focus on gaining qualifications in this
area which will allow her to begin
applying for entry-level cyber security
jobs Alex is a beginner but has already
mapped out her career and certification
path with a view to getting ahead Alex
has enrolled in the Microsoft cyber
security analyst professional
certificate which began with the
introduction to computers and operating
systems and security she enjoys
self-paced learning because she works
shifts in her current job once she has
completed the sc900 exam she will begin
applying for jobs as a junior cyber
analyst Alysa has worked as a clerk in
the motor vehicle sector for four years
and security of information is part of
her work-related tasks she became
interested in it related issues when an
online website that she subscribed to
suffered a data breach as a result she
has become conscious of how her personal
information is gathered stored and used
online Alysa wants to know more about
cyber security in hopes of understanding
and assessing how security is handled by
online companies that she deals with she
would also like to be able to protect
her own devices prior to enrolling in
the Microsoft cyber security analyst
professional certificate program Alyssa
completed several in-house workshops on
data protection and data security
upon completing the sc900 exam she has a
deeper understanding of the threat
landscape and how to mitigate risks
against cyber attacks through this
program she has extended her
Professional Network with the
relationships she has developed with her
classmates during these courses Alysa
has also been promoted to her company's
in-house security engineer where she
maintains all the computers and networks
against suspicious cyber activity in her
private capacity she's continuously
broadening her skill set to to not only
identify suspicious cyber Behavior but
to create protocols and software that
defend the business against cyber crime
as the business expands Alyssa hopes to
be promoted in the future to security
engineer manager and expand her team
through the recruiting process you may
find yourself in a similar situation to
Alyssa deciding to change careers can be
daunting Alyssa found the change
rewarding so taking the step can lead to
you being instrumental in identifying a
need in your current workplace and
pioneering a new role that is mutually
beneficial and fulfilling for you and
the company Josh would like to Advan his
career he graduated with a masters in
computer science Josh has more than four
years working as a software developer he
wants to add new credentials to his
portfolio and expand his expertise
Beyond software into cyber security Josh
aspires to become a qualified cyber
security engineer based on his research
of the role he feels that his attention
to detail and inclination to problem
solve would stand him in good stead a
cyber security engineer develops and
implements security systems they monitor
and evaluate an organization security
measures to protect their data from
cyber attacks or unauthorized access
some of the day-to-day tasks include
performing security assessments and
audits crafting solutions to security
vulnerabilities and investigating cyber
criminals and threat models if this
describes your ideal workday then this
is the program for you Josh completed
the series of courses in the Microsoft
cyber security analyst professional
certificate program as well as the sc900
exam he is actively pursuing his cyber
security career by ear marking his next
Microsoft security certification program
in his Learning Journey congratulations
on taking this first step toward a
career in the cyber security field by
the end of this program you'll emerge
with a stronger Foundation knowledge and
you'll be able to make more informed
decisions about where to proceed next
some additional links to the various
Microsoft certifications are provided at
the end so that you can explore them in
more detail good luck imagine that you
have decided to take steps to improve
the security of your home what options
do you have available you could
reinforce the locks or install a gate
perhaps you could set up a camera system
to monitor your property so which is the
best choice
well before deciding on a solution you
first need to consider the threats that
you are most likely to face similarly
cyber security threats exist in many
forms and the first step toward
implementing effective safeguards is to
better understand the types of threats
that are out there in this video you
will become familiar with the threat
landscape what it is and how it can
potentially affect you you'll be
introduced to several Concepts that
we'll be explored in Greater depth later
on on completion of this video you
should have a highlevel understanding of
the threat landscape and how it has
changed over time you'll also be able to
describe the manner and environment in
which cyber attacks take place to
illustrate the importance of these
Concepts let's examine them from the
perspective of the local ice cream shop
Sam Scoops with a recent surge in
popularity the shop is struggling to
keep up with phone and email orders Sam
has been advised to use business
software to manage these tasks but she
knows little about the options available
she is also wary of taking any
operations online because of security
issues associated with the threat
landscape let's first break down what is
meant by threat landscape this is an
all-encompassing term that refers to
three major areas which are all
potential vulnerabilities of an
application the attackers that may be
targeting this area and the attacks that
are used traditionally threats to a
business include Intruders accessing a
physical location and removing items of
value but as you may know a large volume
of business these days takes place
online with this trend new threats and
attacks begin to manifest the resources
being guarded become less distinct as
companies had to care for physical
damage or theft as well as guarding
information and access to a company's
digital infrastructure during this
transition there was a clear distinction
between internet which is the internal
Communications of a company and internet
or the worldwide connected web companies
and individuals would typically set a
firewall to guard important internal
resources a firewall can be defined as a
block or filter that prevents some
external items from entering a system
this firewall was placed at the Gate of
a company's digital infrastructure and
much like a security guard prevents any
potentially harmful elements from
entering threats of note would include
malware which is software intended to
cause harm or Discord ransomware which
prevents an organization from accessing
its own applications denial of service
which bombards a system with requests so
that it cannot respond to legitimate
digital requests and spam related
activities these attacks are typically
clicked or triggered and access a
company's internal system to prevent
this a firewall limits the content that
is allowed to enter however the threat
landscape has further evolved as an
increasing number of individuals work
from home this added to the complexity
of Defending a system due to the need to
increase the level of external access
that is required for remote work the
proliferation of remote access tools
which allow workers to access an
organizations's Network content from
outside and the practice of bring your
own devices has drastically expanded the
threat landscape reducing the efficacy
of firewalls and giving potential
attackers far more scope for
infiltration much like the security
guard mentioned earlier firewalls
typically relied on their being a
limited number of entry points defensive
strategies have evolved to identify past
attack patterns and develop Solutions
based on them however cyber criminals
have evolved with these approaches to
continue gaining illicit access some
Modern approaches don't even require a
direct vulnerability to exploit but
instead attempt to harvest personal data
on an individual this stolen data is
then used to spoof or imitate their
identity and then gain access through
legitimate channels
you've observed that the nature of
accessing Network changes regularly
which means that potential attackers
look for new vulnerabilities to exploit
and new security strategies must be
developed as a result as you progress
through this course you will learn about
these approaches and many more including
both offensive and defensive techniques
in this video you have learned about the
threat landscape and how it has evolved
over time this includes being aware of
how defensive and offensive actors are
constantly competing with one another
another to construct and deconstruct
security initiatives designed to secure
digital
applications if you have any online
accounts such as those for email or
social media then you're no doubt
familiar with the practice of setting a
password for each one that is used to
log in to save yourself some trouble
perhaps you've developed the habit of
using the same email address and
password across several different
accounts while this creates convenience
it could also increase the risk of
unauthorized access if you're not
careful with your choice of password in
this video you will learn why strong
passwords are so important with any
online account you'll also discover the
potential consequences of weak passwords
and how a breach of one account can
present a linked threat to other
accounts to help illustrate this threat
let's check in on Sam Sam has been
building a social media presence for Sam
Scoops by creating accounts with
different social media providers along
with a personal email account Sam also
has a work email that she uses to take
ice cream orders and field questions
from customers with so many different
accounts to keep track of Sam has opted
for easy to remember passwords so they
are not forgotten like many people Sam's
Logic for coming up with a password
involves tying it to personal data like
a birthday or something that is
Meaningful to her like a pet's name Sam
does not want to lose access to these
accounts or go through the password
reset process so keeping it simple seems
to be the best option for her Sam has
chosen an email address and password
combination for each social media
account she knows that it's a good idea
to have different passwords on each
account so to keep it simple she adds a
number at the end of each one to make
them a little different Sam is happy
with this approach of using different
passwords and she feels confident that
her accounts are all well projected
however there are a couple of problems
for one each password contains the name
of her favorite place this information
isn't known only to Sam as she talks
about it often on social media and with
her friends many of these details are
accessible to anyone else on the
platform Additionally the practice of
using incremental numbers in passwords
is more common than Sam realizes making
it an easy pattern for attackers to pick
up on this weak password has allowed an
attacker to easily guess the password to
gain access to one of the accounts this
password
has also allowed them easy access to the
other newly created accounts the
attacker has also tried to gain access
to one of the email accounts that is
used by Sam to sign in and respond to
clients but this has failed this is
because in contrast to her approach with
the social media accounts Sam has
followed a strong password policy for
her Sam Scoops email account this policy
requires a combination of uppercase and
lowercase letters numbers special
characters and a length of a at least 12
characters long however this is not the
end of the attack as now the hacker has
access to one of the social media
accounts they can use this to send a
message to one of Sam's colleagues
explaining that they need a password
reset link so Sam Scoops is now also
exposed even though they have a good
password policy any attack that results
in someone gaining unauthorized access
to devices services or networks is
considered a security breach imagine a
security breach as similar to a break-in
where an intruder successfully breaks
into a building in Sam's case the
Intruder was an attacker and the
building was an online account in this
example you've witnessed how Sam was
exposed on several different fronts
first one of her passwords was
discovered due to it being weak along
with some leaving hints in her social
media posts then her usage of a
predictable pattern led to her other
passwords being compromised finally a
door is open for for the attacker to use
Sam's social media account to
impersonate her and potentially access
accounts associated with Sam Scoops in
this video you learned that using weak
passwords or reusing passwords on
multiple accounts is a frequent practice
that puts internet users at risk of
account takeover data compromise and
identity theft this is already a big
deal when it affects an individual but
the damage can be exponentially worse
when a single breach impacts an entire
network or organization
having a strong password policy across
all of your online accounts is critical
to stop these linked
threats right now you're using a
computer tablet or smartphone to
navigate through this course despite
these devices being different they
function in the same way in that you can
input data the data is stored and then
process to produce an output a computer
connects you to the digital world you
use it to enjoy entertainment interact
socially via social media platforms or
work efficiently from anywhere in a
paperless environment so what makes up a
computer a computer consists of two
overarching parts the hardware and the
software the hardware relates to the
physical devices that make up a computer
it is the part that the software runs on
software gives the hardware instructions
on what to do and how to do it the
desirable components for a gamer's
personal computer PC differ from those
found on a college laptop or within a
tablet or phone but fundamentally there
are a few key components that are
involved in this video you'll unpack
essential Hardware components that make
up a computer the motherboard is the Hub
in the form of a circuit board with
slots for the components required to
make up a computer when dealing with
Apple devices it is referred to as a
logic board following on from the
motherboard a predominant item required
in creating a computer is the central
processing unit more commonly referred
to as the CPU the capacity of a CPU is
measured by its clock speed or how fast
it can run the unit of measurement is
called a gigahertz CPUs are typically
found on integrated circuit
microprocessors that contain one or more
CPUs you may hear the expression
multicore processors that means several
CPUs are present these can be configured
to tackle a job in tandem the
microprocessor attaches to the
motherboard and functions as the
computer 's reasoning Center modern
phones would typically run on quad cores
quad here is a reference to four meaning
there are four CPUs used for processing
content CPUs have limited scope for
holding memory so this is stored in the
ram which stands for Random Access
Memory the ram specs are important when
purchasing a computer because they
relate to how large a task the computer
can process at one time think of ram in
the same way as a human's short-term
memory how many well-informed decisions
can you make without referencing
additional information externally such
as using a book for research which takes
time the more information you mentally
retain at any time the greater your
ability to recall information
instantaneously therefore the larger the
ram the quicker and more powerful a
computer is typically the minimum RAM
size of a small desktop or PC starts at
8 GB and increases in increments of
eight 16 GB of RAM achiev most standard
operations however high-end Gamers opt
for up to 64 GB of RAM a tablet would
typically have between 2 and 16 GB of
RAM the motherboard will have unique
slots where Ram fits in it is also
possible to upgrade computers by buying
more RAM and manually plugging it into
your motherboard if Ram is associated
with short-term memory then long-term
memory can be related to hard drives
these are additional memory sources that
hold more more
information hard drives come in many
forms the two most common types being
hard disc drives and solid state drives
you'll commonly find these names
shortened to HDD and SSD hard drives
allow permanent storing of information
and are attached to the motherboard with
adapters called serial advanced
technology attachment cables otherwise
known as SATA cables a flash drive is an
example of an SSD meaning it has quicker
lookup speeds HDD is considered and
older technology the final crucial
element required to make a computer
function is the power source large
computers will require more power than
mobile devices one might need 500 to
1,000 watts of power to run a computer
this dwarfs the power consumption of a
mobile phone it typically only requires
2 to six watts of power in this video
you learned about the essential
components that create a computer with
reference to smartphones and tablets
some of the fundament mental components
discussed include the motherboard CPU
Ram long-term memory storage and the
power supply you'll expand upon these
Concepts and learn about how software
interacts with them a bit later Sam the
owner of Sam Scoops is currently
operating her business from a single
homebound personal laptop the demand for
local ice cream is continuously growing
within the community there is an
expansion plan for Sam Scoops that
includes opening a storefront to meet
the growing demand
Sam realizes that getting more hands on
board to meet the demands of her growing
customer base means that more computer
devices with adequate security measures
are needed soon with Sam's desire to
grow the Brand's footprint and expand
the team she needs to have a basic
understanding of the hardware and
software requirements for Sam Scoops to
operate efficiently this allows Sam to
advise the team on using the
technological infrastructure to create
future product developments in addition
Sam can implement the appropriate
security measures to protect Sam scoop's
employees and her customers let's join
Sam on her journey to learn about
computer Basics so that she'll be able
to make more informed decisions about
the right tools for her business this
video summarizes what a computer is and
what it consists of you'll gain more
clarity as to what happens when inputed
data is entered into a computer and the
various Transformations it undergoes
before it displays on the screen knowing
how a computer works will set the stage
for the cyber security Concepts that
you'll learn about later so to start
let's think about the components
required to take in user input and
display it on screen a computer must
perform the following four tasks which
are inputting storing processing and
outputting information let's begin by
discussing input taking input can be
done through a host of devices consider
how you access this course today did you
do it from a laptop phone or personal
computer devices used also include
cameras microphones keyboards and
computer mice depending on the device
once the signal begins a conversion
happens between the input and the
storage it is sent to consider what
happens when you push a key on your
keyboard the key triggers a series of
zeros and ones and transports it to the
storage unit of your device devices
communicate with software by means of a
device driver so what is stored after
receiving the input when a computer
receives input it immediately stores the
information in memory there are
different types of memory available but
generally it can be classified as
volatile or non-volatile volatile memory
such as RAM is temporary and saves data
only while the computer is used items
that are stored in Ram are not permanent
and are sustained as long as the ram
receives power this means that if the
power is cut then the items are lost
nonvolatile memory is permanent and data
is stored whether the computer is on or
off typically computers will come with
some secondary memory built in for
additional storage to hold items
permanently additional memory is stored
in hard drives commonly referred to as
secondary drives it is categorized as
non-volatile memory alternatively you
can make use of external hard drives or
USB drives so once the input data is
stored it needs to be processed let's
explore the processing aspect all
processing on a computer is done by the
CPU
the CPU has two parts which are the
control unit and the arithmetic or logic
unit a CPU has a small memory component
called a register but mostly reads
information from the secondary memory it
then performs the required operation and
stores the result back into the memory
to help you understand this process
think of a CPU like a human brain the
control unit receives a signal whereas a
computer takes input from a mouse or
keyboard the brain does so through
senses like sight or touch
the arithmetic unit contains Logic for
how to handle the input like the
reasoning part of the brain that holds
math formulas you learned in school
registers are like short-term memory
while secondary storage is closer to
long-term memory that may take more time
to recall the CPU is the computer's
brain where all the calculations and
processes run a control unit will
receive an instruction to code this
instruction and then issue signals based
on the results of the decoding CPUs
follow cycle which includes three steps
the first step is fetch here data is
collected from memory the Second Step
decode is where the data is interpreted
finally in the execute step an action is
performed based on the instructions
provided memory on a bus retrieves the
information a bus is a set of physical
components that connects and transfers
data from the memory to the
CPU next the information is returned to
where it is stored on the computer once
the data has been processed the memory
bus Returns the information for storage
notice that information is loaded
constantly from and to memory this
accounts for much of the time used for
executing a program so the last step to
processing information that is displayed
on your computer is the output the
output reflects the final transaction in
the process once the input has been
received by the device and the
appropriate process applied to it by the
CPU it generates an output this might be
performing an action streaming a video
or executing a program depending on the
device and its use the output manifests
differently it usually takes the form of
an image or a light showing that a
process successfully executed an example
of this is a toll booth a green light
indicates that your payment is accepted
to summarize a computer goes through
four basic steps information is taken in
through an input where the signal is
stored in short-term memory before being
processed by the CPU much like how the
the human brain works the CPU performs a
series of actions that pulls items from
memory then it performs some computation
and returns a result the final step is
the output for humans this might be
verbalizing the thought that has been
processed for a computer it could be
displaying a text message in this video
you learned what a computer is and what
it consists of you have a better
understanding of what happens when
inputed data is entered into a computer
and the various Transformations it
undergoes before it displays on screen
with this knowledge you are ready to
continue on your cyber security Journey
think of Sam scoops and all the
employees working together to ensure the
business runs smoothly this might
include attendants dishwashers and
cashiers while their duties are clearly
defined it doesn't mean that they work
in isolation their tasks must be
monitored to ensure that the whole team
can work together without blocking each
other computers work on a similar
principle different components are
competing for limited resources and
their access to such resources must be
regulated to avoid conflict this role is
fulfilled by an operating system in this
video you'll learn what exactly an
operating system is you'll be able to
explain the role it plays and how it
interacts with the various software and
Hardware components to create a smooth
experience for the user the operating
system is the software component that
interacts with the hardware and software
programs to provide users with a
standard computer experience
you can think of it as a goet that
starts up the computer hardware and file
systems and allows for the interaction
between multiple users CPUs and tasks
you can simplify the responsibilities of
the operating system into three broad
categories which are controlling
Hardware access providing a user
interface and managing files and
applications let's explore each of these
one at a time starting with how an
operating system controls Hardware
access
when interacting with the hardware of a
computer the operating system will
communicate instructions through a
device driver these are essentially
small pieces of code written by a device
manufacturer which allow messages and
instructions to be passed between the
hardware and other software to control
the device most devices are installed to
a computer through a plug andplay
process which means that a device
connects to a computer and sends a
signal to the operating system the
software then installs a device driver
that enables interaction and stores this
application settings in a central
location this is saved in the registry
on a Windows computer or the preferences
folder on a Mac plug-and play comes from
a time when all devices were physically
connected but these days devices can be
connected digitally as well consider
printers or any device found on the
internet of things that can connect via
Bluetooth which are still examples of
Plug and Play You'll explore the
Internet of Things in Greater detail
later on another role goal of an
operating system is to provide a user
interface which facilitates the way a
user communicates with the hardware and
software of a computer this interface is
available in two forms one is the
command line or terminal window you'll
be familiar with this from many movies
dealing with hackers breaking into
computers command line or terminals
allow for access to every part of a
computer system but require the user to
provide very detailed instructions often
as programmer code the other type is the
graphical user interface this is the
most common way for users to interact
with computer programs including
controlling the options for the
operating system it involves using a
mouse to click on menus and icons to
initiate programs most operating systems
will provide the user with both CLI and
GUI options finally let's find out how
an operating system manages files and
applications an application is a
software program that performs a task
Microsoft Excel Microsoft Word or your
web browser are examples of commercial
applications that you likely use every
day however users can also develop their
own applications which the operating
system can run an application will
typically have an application
programming interface more commonly
known as an API which determines a set
of rules for interacting with the
program in other words an API ensures
that a program is compatible with a
given operating system when an
application is called for use through a
user interface the operating system
loads the the program from its place in
memory into the ram recall that Ram is
immediate storage that holds files
currently in use the operating system
then determines how much space and CPU
power an application will be given some
applications such as a word processor
require relatively few resources While
others such as a game with high
resolution Graphics are CPU intensive
and will dominate a computer's resources
in this video you've received an
overview of what an operating system is
and the rooll plays on a computer you
should now know that the
responsibilities of an operating system
fall into three General categories which
are controlling Hardware access
providing a user interface and managing
files and
applications by now you should be
familiar with the role of an operating
system and the several major types that
are available but what is the specific
software that people are actually using
despite the many options available the
modern operating system scene is
dominated by just a few major
competitors Each of which offer unique
advantages over the others in this video
you'll explore the five most popular
operating systems in use today which are
windows Mac Android iOS and Linux you'll
become aware of the key characteristics
of each one and find out how they
compare with each other recall that the
core function of an operating system is
to allow you to access various software
and Hardware components and to
facilitate communication between them
all there are different types of
operating systems that you may encounter
but all of them should fulfill this role
for desktop and laptop computers the
three most common operating systems are
Microsoft Windows Apple's Mac OS and
Linux these are primarily found on PCS
whereas other devices such as phones
tablets and music players run on
different operating software because
they have different
specifications the most notable examples
of operating systems for mobile devices
are Google Android and Apple iOS so why
are there distinct operating systems
across devices generally a PC is
expected to perform more complex varied
and process intensive tasks as such it
requires a more sophisticated operating
system in contrast mobile devices
typically do not have the same memory or
processing capacity so mobile operating
systems are tailored to instead maximize
the devic's resources and utilize them
more efficiently in spite of this it's
wor worth noting that the processing
power found in a current day phone is
greater than that of the computers that
were used to First send a man to the
moon now that you know what the most
popular operating systems are let's
explore them one at a time more deeply
starting with one of the oldest programs
which is Windows Windows is proprietary
software that is often pre-loaded into
PCS as the default operating system as
such the popularity of Windows ensures
that developers are highly likely to
make their applications compatible with
this system while windows can be used
with a command line interface it heavily
favors a graphical user interface
approach this means there is greater
emphasis on pop-up menus and clickable
icons as a means of navigating
applications the second most popular OS
for computers is Apple's Mac OS it is
pre-loaded on all Apple computers and is
also proprietary software so users are
discouraged from altering the code and
instead should use the software as sold
as with Windows it is typically used
with a graphical user interface while
Apple and Windows are the systems of
choice for PCS mobile devices need
something else to handle their unique
needs so let's move on to those next
first is Android which receives regular
updates and additional features while it
can be used for devices such as cameras
and gaming consoles this software is
most frequently found on smartphones and
tablets Android is open source making it
highly customizable overall Android is
the most most popular operating system
for mobile devices worldwide however it
does have one major competitor another
mobile device OS Apple's IOS is a
popular alternative to Android a key
difference is that rather than being
available to numerous device makers it
is proprietary software that is
exclusive to Apple products compared to
Android users have limited ability to
customize the software iOS is run on
iPhones iPads and iPods and is the
second most widely used OS for mobile
devices lastly let's examine an
operating system that doesn't currently
have the mainstream appeal of the
previous four but is noted for playing a
large role in OS Innovation an
alternative to proprietary software
Linux is an open-source OS for both
Computing and mobile devices this means
that the code is freely available for
people to alter as they feel fit this
has led to a large community of
enthusiasts who develop and optimize
many variations Linux offers a command
line interface CLI over a GUI based
approach while Linux is not as widely
distributed as Windows or Mac it is
popular for cloud computing and will
likely experience growth as more people
Embrace this format Mac OS is descended
from Unix and while similar to Linux it
is different enough that an Android app
won't work on iOS Windows now ships with
a built-in Linux kernel allowing Linux
apps to run on Windows to now that
you're familiar with the five major
operating systems systems let's observe
each of them in action specifically
you'll witness the startup process of
each one along with the interface that
is first presented once that process
completes in a typical Windows setup
you'll begin by logging in with a
password after a few moments you'll
arrive at the desktop which is the main
workspace and a core part of the windows
GUI the bar at the bottom is the taskbar
this can hold several apps at once
making it easy to switch between them
starting up Mac OS is similar to Windows
and you'll need to log in first a
difference you might notice this time
around is the bar with the icons this is
the dock and you can customize it to
hold your favorite apps so that you can
access them more quickly on the mobile
side you have Android most Android
devices can be unlocked with a pin or a
biometric feature like a fingerprint
because the software is open source the
appearance capabilities and the overall
experience of one device can be
different from those of another this
depends on how the manufacturer has
altered it the other major mobile
operating system is IOS which you'll
find on Apple devices like the iPhone
and iPad the software can't be
customized as much as Android but it's
well known for giving a consistent
experience across different devices and
finally there is Linux Linux is open-
source and has a very active developer
Community which means that it takes on
many forms one of the most popular
versions for cloud computing is Ubuntu
this is because cloud computing relies
on resources that are stored online and
Ubuntu can access these Resources with
both speed and Security in this video
you've become familiar with the five
most popular operating systems for both
computers and mobile devices you should
now be aware that Windows Mac and Linux
are the most common programs for
desktops and laptops while Android and
iOS are the dominant software for
smartphones and tablets well done on
completing introduction to computers and
operat in systems and security before
you continue let's recap on some key
takeaways after familiarizing yourself
with the course learning objectives you
began with an introduction to the threat
landscape here you learned about how
cyber attacks occur you can now describe
current Cyber attack statistics and
Trends and explain how unauthorized
access gained has a huge impact on
multiple devices or domains you
discovered that the threat landscape is
broken up into three distinct areas
the vulnerabilities of the application
the types of attex used and the
perpetuators of the crime next you are
introduced to Computing devices and
discuss the basic components that make a
Computing device whether it is a laptop
desktop or mobile device it requires
some basic components let's recap on
four of these components the first
component is the central processing unit
or CPU it is often referred to as the
brain of the computer where the
computation is performed
the second component is ram ram is a
plug and play addition to a computer
that stores information can you imagine
if you had to relearn every task when
you woke up every morning Ram ensures
that the computer can recall and
recollection is a core requirement for
intelligence you then learned about
input and output devices this is crucial
to a computer because it takes in the
input decodes and processes the data and
displays an output the final component
is the motherboard which en a the
operation it does not actively take part
in computation but it provides a hub
through which all these components
interact and generate the desired output
you broadened your understanding of
computers by unpacking the difference
between hardware and software remember
that Hardware makes the physical device
operate and software gives instructions
so that the hardware knows what to do
and how to do it it's an interdependent
relationship that allows you to interact
with your computer finally you focused
on operating systems which provide the
directions that are sent to the hardware
they configure applications so that they
communicate efficiently with Hardware
devices you examine several major
operating systems including those
specific to computers and to mobile
devices then you explore the two main
categories that the software generally
falls into which are proprietary or
open- Source you should now be better
informed about how to choose a suitable
operating system for a specific business
need recall the three key
responsibilities of an operating system
it controls the access of Hardware that
is connected to the device physically or
digitally it provides the interface that
enables you the user to communicate with
the computer's hardware and software
specifically the interface is a command
line interface or a graphical user
interface and it manages files and
applications by allocating suitable
system resources as determined by an API
now that you've completed the
introduction to computers and oper
operating systems and security you have
a good foundation to navigate cyber
security further you are well-versed in
both computer Basics such as Hardware
software and operating systems you've
also gained insight as to where the
cyber security threats might come from
and how to mitigate some of these
threats you then further learned what a
security breach entails and why it's
potentially harmful for your business
nice
work do you remember a time when you
were rushing to complete a task for a
deadline and at the last minute
something unforeseen happened which
interrupted your progress perhaps you
were uploading important information and
your internet connection dropped do you
recall working on your computer where
you saved all your confidential or
project information that you've been
tackling for months suddenly your device
gave in leaving you frustrated and
panicked because you're held accountable
and there's no recourse to restore your
data imagine the impact on an Enterprise
when a large volume of data is lost
there are solutions to avoid the
devastation experienced in situations
such as these system fail safe
protection forms part of Enterprise
systems and Security in this video
you'll establish the relationship
between system fail safe protection and
server storage and backups specifically
you'll find answers to questions such as
what computer environments will an
application run on are their backups and
what maintenance and patching policies
are employable let's begin by discussing
servers a server is considered to have
several meanings and various roles in
relation to computers predominantly a
server is a piece of programming code
that provides services this can also
take the form of computers on a computer
network additionally it can be defined
as a computer dedicated to running
programs there are various types of
servers but let's unpack the two most
common ones web servers and database
servers a web server is a computer that
is dedicated fulltime to hosting web
pages the internet is made up of many
computers acting as web servers
connected with the appropriate ports and
protocols it can be a single web page of
a small business running on a personal
computer or a large multinational
company hosting thousands of pages
nevertheless it is all interconnected
and accessible to everyone an
unfavorable expression that you may have
encountered is the server is down this
means that the computer hosting the web
Pages for a company or an individual is
no longer accessible and the service has
ceased soon you learn some cyber
security best practices that will make
this expression less likely to come up
another type of server is a database
server a database server is a machine
that is dedicated to storing information
it is connected to a network and
accessed when stored data is required
before continuing let's observe a
scenario that involves storing data for
a business Sam is considering the
storage needs for Sam Scoops here are
some important considerations when
assessing storage needs and requirements
one is durability good questions to ask
when assessing durability is will it
last and what is an acceptable period of
time to measure durability another is
scalability does it fit the data needs
of the business or does your storage
solution adjust accordingly as the
business need grows next availability
concerns how readily available the data
is and when it is needed lastly consider
security how safe is your data
ultimately Sam wants to ensure that the
essential data needed to run Sam Scoops
is kept safe this means potentially
duplicating the data and storing it in a
secondary location this process is known
as creating a backup it is good practice
to exercise when running a business with
the scenario in mind let's explore
storage when a server goes down the
server hosting your web page is
unreachable this may be due to a
technical error like losing an internet
connection or an issue with the computer
hosting the server recall that memory is
either volatile or non-volatile in the
instance that a computer no longer runs
any data stored in volatile memory is
lost therefore it is vital to create a
backup and save your memory to secondary
storage regularly additionally your
server may require large amounts of data
to satisfy requested tasks Ram is a
short-term solution and its storage and
memory retention are quite limited when
faced with this issue a business can
address the problem in two ways the
first option is to physically acquire
more storage through what is known as
direct area storage or Das Das involves
additional secondary storage devices
that physically connect to the machine
accessing it some examples include solid
state drives or hard disk drives along
with flash drives and Legacy devices
like floppy discs and DVDs Al
alternatively another option is to make
use of cloud storage some major cloud
storage providers include Microsoft
Azure Amazon web services and Google
Cloud platform cloud computing works on
the same Principle as a home database
server except it is done on a larger
scale with potentially unlimited data
restrictions available the only
limitation is that there is a cost
attached to cloud services so Sam can
back up important data regularly by
either exploring the D route with a
physical installation or investing in a
cloud storage provider in this video you
discovered that a server can take many
forms you are familiar with the internet
model that is made up of web servers a
database server however can act as a
database for your business you also
learned that it is good practice to keep
duplicates of your information by
creating backups that run periodically
this protects your information if
anything happens to your primary data
set and allows you to restore an earlier
version
when you work on any document are you
aware of how often you press the save
button perhaps you are quite diligent
and make an effort to save your work on
your local machine regularly Sam the
owner of Sam Scoops is still
experiencing a massive demand for ice
cream in the community business is
booming and she is so thrilled the
team's hard work is paying off however
this rapid progress in business sales
also presents the challenge of more
administrative tasks she diligently
saves her inventory documents often
despite her efforts an unexpected
problem has caused the main computer to
stop working resulting in it being sent
off for repairs Sam Scoops didn't
account for this hurdle and stress
levels are high with the pressure of
keeping up with the local demand the
repair technician confirmed after
assessing the main computer that recent
data cannot be recovered but has
proposed a backup solution at an
additional cost to avoid this happening
again this situ situation has caused
time delays and additional expenses to
fully restore operations for Sam Scoops
previously you learned about some basic
backup Solutions this time you'll go
deeper and discover some approaches that
would have helped Sam Scoops in this
video you'll learn about a concrete
four-step plan that ensures the safety
of your data in the event of potential
issues occurring in your day-to-day
business you'll also start to identify
suitable backup solutions for specific
business needs when it comes to recovery
you are only as good as your last backup
Sam from Sam Scoops is working on a
project using Microsoft Word Sam checks
the autosave feature when working on
word minimizing information loss due to
unexpected shutdowns suddenly the
battery unexpectedly quits how much data
is safely stored only the information
written before the last save is still
there saving the information is a form
of defense against an unexpected program
shutting down however if the issue is
that the laptop is lost or damaged
saving the data may not be enough in
this instance Sam ideally should have
used an external hard drive USB stick or
some form of online storage such as
cloud storage only then with the
information relating to the daily
activities of Sam Scoops be safely
backed up physically separating a backup
from the original file makes the most
security sense consider the scenario
where a computer storing your
information is physically damaged with a
backup up the information is recoverable
think back to a database server solution
using a database server to keep your
company's information ensures that the
information isn't lost if something
happens to your primary storage the best
practice is storing backup data off site
giving you excellent protection so that
you have an alternative way of accessing
it practicing the following four steps
protects your data from unexpected
shutdowns technological failure and
malicious cyber activity let's begin
begin with step one replication This
concerns copying data from one location
to another it's like the autosave
function in Microsoft Word that keeps
recoverable near realtime copies of your
information step two is snapshots a data
snapshot is a regular save point
throughout the day it's good to
implement a policy to schedule automatic
saving of all your business information
the third step involves daily backups in
addition to regular snapshots it's
beneficial to store your information in
a second location that is not on your
premises therefore saving to the cloud
means that any incidents your business
potentially suffers stops at cloud
storage here additional safety checks
are also carried out the final step is
what is known as the 321 backup strategy
the 321 backup strategy is regarded as
the most effective backup route and
relates to creating your backups if the
information is particularly important
why not create three snapshots of the
dat data this is exactly what the 321
strategy is use two different formats
such as locally on your computer where
you create the information as well as on
your data server ideally one of these
copies is kept off site this way the
essential information used to run your
business is always protected it's
important to note that different data
have different levels of importance so
implementing the 321 backup strategy may
be considered excessive however many
recent Cyber attack strategies include
removing the legitimate owner's ability
to access their data instead of deleting
it allog together you may face technical
obstacles when deciding on the
appropriate backup approach this is
often daunting the good news is that
throughout this cybercity Learning
Journey you'll witness several
implementations and strategies that you
can use in your business it's also worth
noting that when you deal with other
people's information there is an element
of trust the customers of Sam Scoops
Trust trust that the necessary due
diligence is carried out to protect
their data and provide a timely service
think of it as an unspoken service level
rule between customers and service
providers in this video you learned that
protecting data is a significant
commitment that any business owner
commits to Additionally you unpacked
backup solutions that regularly save
data ensuring it is safe with a quick
recovery feature these backup Solutions
allow you to assess your backup needs
and implement the appropriate solution
you also learned four practical steps
that protect you against unexpected
device shutdowns technological failure
and malicious cyber
activity if you've ever gone shopping
for computers you've no doubt noticed
the wide range in prices across machines
that perform essentially the same tasks
so why would anyone pay more well
beneath the similar exteriors are
components with vast differences in
power and capacity and sometimes
distinct specialized Parts entirely
depending on the task choosing a
computer with capable specifications is
critical for achieving solid performance
earlier you were introduced to the
various components that comprise a
computer recall that this includes Ram a
CPU a motherboard and various input and
output devices Additionally you learn
about different operating systems and
how they are used to interface between
the user and the Machinery you then
expanded this knowledge to includ the
concepts of servers and storage now that
you are familiar with each of these
individual topics it's time to combine
them and find out how they work together
to make up Computing environments in
this video you'll learn how to
distinguish between personal commercial
and cloud computing and you'll be able
to describe the general usage scenarios
that each one is best suited for
currently Sam uses computers to answer
questions and fulfill orders sent
through email she's aware that changes
will be NE necessary to handle the
higher volume as they gain customers
however Sam is unsure which direction to
take and has asked you to help Define
the differences between the computers
that people use at home and those used
by businesses let's begin by defining
and comparing personal and Commercial
computers as you may have guessed by the
names personal computers are typically
intended for individual use while
commercial computers are more likely to
be the choice of businesses and
organizations put simply the primary
difference between the two comes down to
size and processing power but let's
explore why this is and what it means in
real world use for a typical person
using a computer at home activities are
confined to web surfing editing
documents watching videos and running a
few applications with a few exceptions
these activities do not consume
excessive Computer Resources so there is
no need for top tier components in
contrast commercial grade computers are
expected to handle more significant
tasks that usually require more memory
and greater CPU power depending on the
nature of the business there might also
be a need for graphics cards or other
specialized Hardware components to
perform the business need thus while a
single core processor may be sufficient
for personal use commercial computers
may require a quad core to handle
processing and networking with other
computers the larger workloads on
Commercial computers might also demand
more durable motherboards circuitry and
casing leading to a higher cost than for
the same Parts on a personal computer
however note that commercial Computing
isn't the only option for companies
these days while commercial computers
were the business Norm for many years
the rise of high-speed internet and
online data storage have enabled another
type of computing environment cloud
computing this has gained popularity as
a solution due to certain advantages
when it comes to scalability and
reliability among other benefits that
you'll learn more about later the main
difference between commercial computers
and cloud computing is the location but
before you explore what that entails
let's take a step back for a moment
while personal and Commercial computers
have their differences as you recently
learned the fundamental processes they
go through are ultimately the same both
types take input access stored resources
process the input and store or return
the result however how these ends are
achieved differs from a traditional
in-house commercial setup and cloud
computing let's find out how that is the
input types are common to all three
approaches a keyboard mouse touchscreen
or another input device used to take
input which is then loaded into the Ram
with personal and Commercial computers
Ram can be stored on the machine taking
the input or the task may be sent to an
in-house application server in cloud
computing however this input is sent
using an online Network to ram on the
cloud consider what you previously
learned about servers and how a computer
can be dedicated to just running appli
applications or storing information
cloud computing is a server dedicated to
processing storing or running data and
applications the fundamental difference
between cloud and traditional on
premises or personal computers is that
the hardware that performs these actions
does not need to be purchased instead
the business requests an online Network
to perform a task the results of which
are stored or returned from an external
site there are different Cloud models
that are used to make this happen which
will be covered in detail later
in this video you learned about the key
differences between personal commercial
and cloud computing environments you
discovered that while each approach
handles input storage processing and
output differently the core components
that perform these operations are the
same you also learned how these
approaches apply to different usages
specifically you found out that personal
computers rarely require massive
computation and smaller less power
intensive Parts can be used an on
premises business can expand its size
using servers and more heavy grade
Hardware Distributing tasks on local
application servers and finally a
cloudbased company can utilize the
industrial grade components found with
cloud computing utilizing the
internet you were recently introduced to
the methods used by businesses for
handling Digital Data specifically the
on premises approach that utilizes local
physical hardware and cloud computing
which uses the internet to push those
duties to external parties you also
already know about the potential cyber
threats faced by an individual computer
user and how to safeguard against them
but what happens when the data of an
entire organization is at stake by the
end of this video you'll come to
understand the security issues that
concern both on premises and cloud-based
Computing environments you'll also leave
with a stronger grasp of the measures
that are taken to improve security
within each approach previously you
became familiar with the traditional
methods for implementing Security on
home computers every personal computer
being used to access this video has a
firewall filtering the incoming traffic
to ensure no malicious code is allowed
in which could cause the computer to
perform in ways contrary to the user's
expectations every computer also runs
antivirus software designed to detect
and remove any malicious code that does
make it through these same principles of
preventative and responsive measures
extend to commercial computing both
traditional and cloud-based however the
implementation May differ due to the
particular challenges of each approach
fundamentally the steps are the same
stop unauthorized access limit mobility
within a system once accessed and employ
a backup strategy that will help recover
from any damage done through
unauthorized access to a system although
both approaches to running a business
Target the same goal there are some
differences in how these steps are
carried out let's find out what those
are starting with traditional Computing
recall that traditional Computing keeps
the Computing infrastructure of the
company on premises this means the data
does not have to move across different
internet lines to be processed and
stored this can be highly beneficial to
companies that operate under strict
regulatory requirements the software
used to maintain this data is also
behind the traditional on premises
security measures so they offer greater
protection so if an attacker manages to
gain access to a company's internal
operations they will have to overcome
the internal measures implemented to
reduce unauthorized access on premises
housing also means that security is
physical unlike virtual protection on
premises security must ensure the
physical well-being of the computers
being able to access the hardware
physically could allow an attacker the
opportunity to upload some malicious
code typically a business will guard
against this through security guards
worker ID cards segregated section
access and good sturdy locks further
measures may include security cameras
and tracking software on the computers
in contrast with cloud computing data
protection Duties are outsourced to a
third party and as such the company will
have less control over how it is
protected you'll later learn more about
the specific breaches fallouts and other
dangers that this can leave data more
vulnerable to some might argue that the
security measures implemented by these
multinational providers would require
more work to replicate on premises But
ultimately the level of security is only
as helpful as the measures implemented
establishing good policies and
procedures is vital regardless of how
large the lock guard in your door is it
is only useful if the building is secure
this principle is true when applied to
on-site security and cloud-based
security alike access to cyber
infrastructure is gained through
gateways this means the first step in
protecting data is monitoring traffic
all incoming traffic is vet before it
can access the system next an
organization will consider managing the
end points an endpoint is any
destination from a communication Channel
common organization endpoints could
include mobile devices desktop computers
virtual machines which can be thought of
as Cloud desktops servers and embedded
devices or any specialized devices
needed for executing the business needs
as noted a physical measure for
protecting a business is providing
authorization cards for employees
cleared to be in a given area so how can
such a policy be enforced in the absence
of physical locations within cloud
computing that can be done with the
Cyber equivalent of this practice which
is known as identity and access
management or I am Microsoft's Azure a
popular cloud computing platform can
provide all the cloud-based requirements
a business may need Azure has a
dedicated IM am called active directory
which ensures that access to specific
documentation and services is only given
to the appropriate people you'll explore
how this is implemented later on such
management methods are crucial to
protecting a business's digital assets
because it's not enough to only monitor
who gains access there must also be a
means to control what changes they are
allowed to perform finally one of the
strongest measures a company can employ
whether on premises or cloud-based is to
provide Technical Training for staff
knowing what dangers a company faces is
half the battle of avoiding them so a
well-trained Workforce is key to
organizational Security in this video
you are made aware of some security
concerns faced by on premises and
cloud-based companies some of the
highlevel concepts you were introduced
to include how to access company
resources what movement is allowed to a
person once inside and the various end
points that a hacker might
attack why are updates necessary this is
something that Sam from Sam Scoops
always wondered about but didn't pay
close attention to Sam Scoops is
flourishing with the sudden growth it's
experiencing in the community Sam knows
that the envisioned expansion of the
business is achievable if the company
continues this path of success as it
stands the workload has increased so
much that more hands and additional
devices would make life easier while
working at such a fast pace Sam makes a
common Mistake by postponing the
computer updates to a less busy day
however so many days have passed and
they not not that the computer software
is slowing down in addition and
unexpectedly Sam receives a notification
a day later asking for a ransom to
release the business's confidential
information if Sam doesn't comply and
pay the ransom the Cyber criminals will
delete everything on the computer and
begin targeting customers hopefully
you've never experienced a ransomware
attack like this even if you haven't you
should ask yourself a question is your
device currently up to date or are you
vulnerable to a cyber fiber attack in
this video you'll unpack what
maintenance and patching are and why
they are essential in reducing
vulnerabilities software updates take an
existing piece of code and alter it
motivations for this include adding and
improving functionality addressing and
enhancing a security related element and
removing bugs that affect how a program
operates let's begin by learning what
patches are patches areer newly
identified shortcomings or dangers in
existing software they are small pieces
of code that only modify the target area
without impacting the general function
of an application the code deployed is
never perfect over time
incompatibilities or issues are
identified if the issue is determined to
pose an immediate danger to a system
then a patch will be issued to address
the issue immediately later at a
scheduled update a more permanent
solution will be deployed there are two
categories of patches first a bug f fix
patch is when an issue is identified
with the code and the patch temporarily
covers it the second type is a security
patch it is when a vulnerability that
can be exploited for malicious intent is
identified a security patch is then
issued to make the software more secure
patches can be very useful because they
either enhance existing software or make
it more robust against attack so where
does maintenance fit in while patches
are designed to prevent and mediate
issues with code maintenance is defined
as all the changes made to a code after
deployment this includes all the patches
and updates an update contains security
and quality revisions and significant
feature additions and changes
maintenance is done during special
maintenance windows and can include a
scan for any malware and viruses a patch
is further distinguished by how it is
implemented a Hot Patch is an alteration
to the code that does not require a
system reboot a cold patch requires the
system to be rebooted before the update
becomes active understandably this can
disrupt
operations regular maintenance avoids or
eliminates the need to repair an item
patches and updates are the processes by
which software is maintained and
enhanced by companies some individuals
however choose not to implement patches
based on the conclusion that if there is
no issues then why issue an update
alternatively a user may be engaged in a
task and the update requires restarting
the machine so they are often tempted to
put off implementing the patch generally
updates relate only to functionality but
it is important to implement them
because some updates include patches
that have security related Elements by
updating regularly your device will be
less vulnerable to cyber attacks let's
examine the following use cases where
users were vulnerable to cyber attacks
because they put off their update
installations in May 2017 a ransomware
attack called wac cry affected millions
of computers
this attack exploited a shortcoming of
Microsoft devices it resulted in
encryption software being installed on
these devices the information was held
for ransom by the attackers one a cry is
an instance of a zerod day exploit this
is an attack done on a detected unknown
flaw in a type of software there's no
prior knowledge of the flaw and
therefore no defense to fight against it
so Microsoft urgently released a patch
to close the loop that allowed unlawful
access to prevent similar future cyber
attacks it's important to note that the
patch closed the Gateway that the Cyber
criminals used to enter the system it
did not lead to a decryption of the
affected software initially affected
users were forced to pay the ransom or
to accept the data loss on their
computers you may have heard of another
virus called Peta that exploited the
same vulnerability computers affected by
Peta were systems that were vulnerable
because they did not download and
install the Microsoft Pat
so think twice before putting off your
update installations in this video you
learn to differentiate between patches
and maintenance and why it is essential
in reducing vulnerabilities you now
realize that an update might relate to
adding features or performance related
pieces of code you learned that a patch
is designed to address a shortcoming or
security risk remember that an update
may include a vital patch so paying
attention to updates is always
advisable
patching is a computer practice that is
as old as computers themselves in fact
the term patch dates back to a time when
Computing was performed using Punch
Cards a programmer would Mark the code
on stiff paper through a series of holes
or punches updating or changing this
code entailed removing certain holes
which was done by placing patches in
their place and so this practice of
identifying updates as patches remains
in use today applying patches and
updates is an essential routine for
ensuring your application's longevity
and safety users sometimes view update
notifications as unnecessary and choose
to ignore pending updates however doing
so carries some risks in this video
you'll become familiar with the primary
benefits of patches as well as some of
the negative aspects that may deter
users from committing to them to begin
let's consider some of the advantages to
accepting patches and updates when a
vulnerability is discovered in an
application the developer responds with
a patch to mitigate the risk of
infection however announcing the
vulnerability does mean that both good
actors and bad ones become aware of its
existence the fact that the patch exists
is a reason to apply it because the
issue is now also known to potential
hackers patches can also prevent
breaches that expose sensitive data a
company's reputation becomes severely
damaged when they cannot protect their
customers information so a patch helps
to mitigate potential breaches when
vulnerabilities become known and keeps
the company in high regard keeping
devices up toate helps to prevent other
devices on a network from becoming
infected if a seemingly minor device on
your network is attacked then patching
it could potentially seal a Gateway
through which more important systems are
impacted even when vulnerabilities
aren't an issue patches are often
developed to fix bugs or other flaws in
a system that might affect performance
and to prevent system crashes and
periods of offline activity that would
halt productivity keep in mind that
updates aren't limited to addressing
vulnerabilities or fixing things that
are wrong there are other reasons why
you might want to add patches for
example they ensure that your system
stays compatible with contemporary
software which itself is being updated
constantly with all these benefits why
wouldn't a user want to install all
updates that become available well they
are often viewed as a disruptive
procedure and may also result in
unwanted changes to an application or
workflow let's observe some of the
specific difficulties that are
frequently brought up for one a business
may need to take a critical system
offline to perform an update this can
hinder the operations of a business
significantly so some companies are
understandably hesitant often necessary
updates are scheduled for appropriate
times that produce the least impact
there are also concerns of how an update
can make a familiar working environment
unfamiliar by changing the layout or
removing previously used elements some
patches also add functionality that is
not required and may even degrade the
performance of other features some users
become reluctant to accept updates due
to poor experiences that change the
interface in a way that was undesirable
finally there are worries about effects
on productivity for example a system may
experience lag or require a restart to
implement the patch this in turn slows
or halts any other activities in
progress which deters many users from
implementing a patch the very Act of
installing an update can also break the
flow of concentration if a notification
appears at An Inconvenient time and
deferring once or twice can quickly
build into a habit in this video you
were introduced to some of the pros and
cons of accepting updates and patches
some of the inconveniences include
breaking the flow of your work
temporarily having to take your system
offline and potentially changing layout
or otherwise altering the flow of a once
familiar program however most users
would likely agree that the advantages
of implementing updates outweighs the
inconveniences namely the lowered risk
of attack increased safety for other
devices on the network elimination of
bugs and flaws and improved performance
and productivity in the long term
congratulations on finishing Enterprise
systems and security during this time
you've been introduced to many new
Concepts relating to the use of
commercial computing setups and how to
keep them operating safely before you
move on let's briefly recap the most
important points that were covered you
first explored the ideas of servers
storage and backups and how these are
utilized to minimize the risk of data
loss you learned that these Concepts
together form a system fail saake for
Enterprise setups to be more specific
the servers move and store data on the
network while storage is used to hold
duplicates of that data that come into
play if the original data is lost or
damaged or when internet connection
issues prevent communication with the
servers you discovered that as a general
concept servers are a component in the
client server model in which a client
sends a request for a service and the
server responds by providing that
service common types of servers include
web servers that host web pages database
servers that store information and print
servers that handle requests sent to a
printer these various roles demonstrate
why it is critical for a business to
keep their servers running when it comes
to storage you learned about several key
considerations for choosing a suitable
solution these include durability or the
length of time that the storage is
needed scalability which concerns the
solution's ability to adjust as the
business's data needs grow availability
or how readily accessible the data is
and security which relates to how safe
your data is against unwanted access you
found that backing of data is a practice
ice that takes planning and maintenance
depending on the nature of the business
you'll need to decide on factors such as
the storage format to use and the extent
of data to backup fortunately you are
made aware of a four-step plan that
applies to many situations this plan
involves replicating data taking regular
snapshots performing daily backups to
off- premises locations and following a
321 backup strategy next you learned how
to distinguish between different types
of computing environments you discovered
that personal Computing relates to
individual users at home who generally
don't require powerful components while
commercial Computing typically needs
more memory and processing power to
handle larger scale tasks commercial
Computing was also further divided into
a traditional on premises approach in
which all Computing infrastructure is
contained in the same location or a
cloud-based approach that moves most of
these components online you are made
aware that the security strategies for
both approaches adhere to the same
principles of preventing unauthorized
entry limiting mobility within the
system and mitigating any negative
impact resulting from a breach however
you also found that the methods for
implementing these strategies different
due to the distinct ways in which access
is handled within each approach for
example you found that the concept of a
firewall applies differently for cloud
environments than it does for on
premises environments whereas an on Prem
firewall only needs to monitor external
traffic that tries to enter the system
the distinctions are less clear in a
cloud setup in which many system
resources may be outside of the system
finally you were introduced to the
practice of patching which applies
updates to software for the purpose of
adding or improving functionality
enhancing security or getting rid of
bugs you learned that because this
maintenance is typically performed on
software that is in use it needs to be
done carefully to minimize impact on the
operations of a business you discovered
several approaches for accomplishing
this including corrective maintenance
that deals with bugs or vulnerabilities
before they become a problem routine
maintenance that manages applications on
a regular schedule to keep them up to
dat and predictive maintenance that
takes action based on signs of impending
issues going a bit deeper you also found
that detection of vulnerabilities
happens through several types of testing
such as Network testing to identify if
open port reports can be accessed by
unwanted elements penetration testing to
determine the strength of a system
security and vulnerability verification
to assign scores that correlate with the
level of Risk by completing Enterprise
systems and security you should now have
a stronger awareness of the many points
for consideration when it comes to
protecting a business Computing
environment and the data that it holds
more importantly you understand the
guiding principles of strong security
and know several best practices can
Implement to minimize risk well
done with technology today and the
fierce competitive market how efficient
is a business that persists in using a
paper based system Sam from Sam Scoops
realizes that business growth includes
revisiting processes and investigating
ways to become operationally efficient
with many tasks still carried out on
paper the time spent doing this can be
time spent Elsewhere on longer days
under increased pressure s's noticed
that sometimes mistakes are made when
undertaking tasks manually she's ready
to consider Which business software
applications would benefit the business
by Saving Time and minimizing human
error in this video you'll begin
differentiating between a business need
and business software you'll explore
different types of software applications
with common business functions a
company's business need relates to all
the business requirements including
achieving the money-making aspect of a
company
in other words it's all the software and
services used to execute business
functions specifically these needs
include financial analysis and growth
customer management and Analysis
increasing Revenue payroll management
product development and financial
management the business function relates
to a specific task it executes for
example within Sam scoop's ice cream
shop these are aspects related to
running the business such as hiring and
paying staff order ERS communicating
with customers and providers maintaining
inventory and
marketing business software consists of
applications that help businesses reach
their goals this is either existing or
generic software packages for certain
aspects of the business need or a
software package that is customized to a
company's needs for example Sam Scoops
may require software that will allow
them to take orders online organize a
timetable schedule deliveries and manage
customer in voices some activities are
General tasks like bookkeeping and
invoice generating and others involve
software designed specifically for a
company such as customer relationship
management or CRM so what is CRM
software business applications originate
from CRM systems it began with a process
for managing a customer's interaction
with a business this interaction
comprised of providing software to
enable communication between the company
and the customer manag managing the
software and providing detailed analysis
of the information gathered about the
interaction the techniques and tools
benefit various departments including
Human Resources Marketing sales and
financial reporting these services are
called line of Business Solutions and
enterprise resource planning essentially
line of business is a set of products
that Services a specific business need
enterprise resource planning is
management software that integrates
processes through a central system
business software can refer to a single
application such as a word processing
program it can also consist of a
combined service with many individual
Solutions such as a collection with word
processing spreadsheets and presentation
software let's explore some of the ways
in which a business software package
might benefit a company especially a
small one that needs to be mindful of
its budget imagine for now that Sam has
decided to purchase some software to
help perform daily tasks at Sam's Scoops
she only wants applications for creating
invoices keeping track of financial
records and creating marketing material
however she notices that business
software collections always seem to have
programs that she doesn't currently need
such as applications for payroll
management fortunately many businesses
from small ones to large multinationals
are using cloud services for access to
their modern solutions these Solutions
offer different packages for different
needs which are available at multiple
price tiers this means that Sam isn't
stuck paying extra for software she
won't use the rise of cloud storage for
businesses gives Sam even greater
flexibility for example instead of
paying a high upfront cost for a large
local storage device she can pay less
for lower capacity online storage this
way Sam can pay only for the space she
needs immediately and can expand the
capacity later on if necessary many
business software Solutions provide
integrated cloud storage making this
entire process even more seamless in
this video You' have been introduced to
various business software applications
you now understand what business needs
are and that it extends beyond the
services a business provides it also
includes all the services needed to
enable a company to execute this such as
sales marketing and payroll you can
confidently identify the operations that
some crms provide and you explored how
bus business software packages come in
multiple forms that cater to both large
and small
businesses Sam Scoops is constantly
evolving the success of the business is
steadily growing and the need to
continuously evaluate internal processes
is vital Sam acknowledges that some
improvements to better daily tasks are
necessary she also finds it difficult to
manage the ice cream shop operationally
and Implement changes however Sam has
decided to give the recommended software
applications a go to complete your daily
tasks previously you engaged in an
exercise where you began to apply your
knowledge of software applications in
response to business needs in this video
you'll examine how business applications
are beneficial and can be used in
everyday business tasks you'll form the
big picture of the role and importance
of these system applications through the
use case of Sam Scoops Sam wants to
create a menu for Sam Scoops to do so
Sam decides to use Microsoft PowerPoint
this is a good choice because PowerPoint
has built in templates to choose from
this will cck down on the time it would
take to design a menu from scratch so
Sam opens PowerPoint and selects the new
section she then navigates to the
template section to search for a
pre-existing design that can quickly be
adapted Sam settles on a template with
clean appealing design and proceeds to
populate it with the names of the Shop's
ice cream flavors Sam then personalizes
the menu into something that suits the
Sam Scoops brand this is easily done by
replacing the fonts colors and images
next Sam searches for a way to convert
her static menu into something more
exciting such as a video she intends to
play the video on the screen in store
after spending some time researching she
discovers that PowerPoint has the option
to animate the onscreen elements of her
menu and Export it in video format with
that Sam has completed two tasks in one
sitting using one software application
this has not only saved time but also
avoided additional production costs to
create the video next Sam needs an
immediate solution to creating customer
invoices Sam realizes that Microsoft
Word has built-in templates so she opens
Microsoft Word and selects the new tab
in the template section Sam conducts a
search for invoice there Sam selects a
template she likes and that is simple to
amend the the key elements of the
invoice form are there so all Sam needs
to do is fill in the company details
within minutes the document has been
personalized and is ready for use the
invoice is already in pretty good shape
but Sam decides that rather than just
display the company name in text she
would like to use the logo to do so she
deletes the name in the upper left
corner and then inserts an image of the
logo from her computer however it takes
up too much space on the page not a
problem she can simply resize it until
she finds the perfect fit now it's
complete Sam doesn't want to add these
details every time she prepares a new
invoice and fortunately she won't have
to she can save her work as a custom
template and then open it next time and
enter customer information right away
now just one task remains Sam has been
putting off doing the budget plan for
the coming month up until now she has a
book logging the budgets for Sam scoops
it's a timec consuming process and
currently not a document that can be
easily shared a budget is required to
make sure that the outgoing orders match
the incoming Capital without wasting
more time Sam has learned that Microsoft
Excel is suited for this purpose Sam
opens the app and selects the new tab
there is a range of budget templates
appropriate for every occasion by
selecting an appropriate one Sam
confidently plans the budget for the
coming month as with the invoice Sam can
personalize the template and quickly
fill it in with financial details from
Sam Scoops Sam now has the data in a
table but she wants to take things a
step further to gather insights more
easily she would like to present the
same data in a more visual format she's
in luck Sam can simply select the
desired data and then use excel's pie
chart tool to instantly produce a chart
that allows her to interpret the
information from a different angle in
this video you examine readily available
business software applications that a
small business can use specifically
three Microsoft business applications
were used to improve day-to-day tasks
for Sam Scoops by using existing
templates rather than starting from
scratch the approach with each
application followed the same steps
you'll investiga more advanced tools as
the business's needs
grow how has email changed the way we do
business let's look at this example Sam
is sitting with some friends and having
some coffee there is a beep as Sam's
phone informs her that she has received
an email the email relates to a
significant order that needs Sam's
immediate attention without leaving the
restaurant Sam can dispatch this piece
of business as Sam puts away the phone
she Marvels at how incredible the power
of email is in this video you will learn
how communication has shaped the world
you will also learn what happens behind
the scenes as an email makes its way to
the recipient before email the main form
of written communication was the letter
letters were transferred in what later
became known as snail mail a name that
conveys the slowness of the medium
despite this it played a critical role
in spreading world changing ideas post
was the means that conquered the Wild
West in America it traveled on Horseback
stage coach and later trains the
Constitutional post was founded in 1774
to oppose the British run post because
letters were regularly intercepted and
said many felt that revolutionary ideas
needed to pass undetected mail was
designed to spread information and was
seen as an aid in developing an informed
electorate in modern times written
communication has evolved and moved from
a physical delivery method to an
electronic one the first email was
created in 1965 at Massachusetts
Institute of Technology six years later
the electronic Mail system was
introduced by Ray Tomlinson who also
introduced the at symbol as a means of
address
in 1978 the defense Advanced research
projects agency or DARPA introduced the
standardization tcpip process used today
Microsoft Mail which would grow into
Office 365 was introduced in 1988 email
fundamentally changed how people
communicate while before you could write
your thoughts on a piece of paper and
have them delivered to a family or
entire Village you could now type one
message by email and have it copied
multiple times this also had a
significant impact on how business is
done consider mailing lists interested
parties subscribe to a certain service
from which they receive regular updates
in a timely fashion vendors also benefit
as they can reach a wider audience of
interested parties without email online
shopping would become particularly
challenging email allows for instant
interaction between seller and buyer
from any two parts of the world coupled
with online payment systems and world
worldwide delivery services this has
created a global Marketplace so how does
email work to find out let's follow the
Journey of one email as it goes from
sender to recipient first someone types
an email and using a computer with an
internet connection sends this to an
email server in previous lessons you
learned that different servers perform
different tasks which they are named
after the email server serves mail the
sender uses a simple mail transfer
protocol or
SMTP Protocols are the backbone of the
internet and will be covered extensively
later on for now we can say that a
protocol is a series of predefined steps
for achieving a goal the task of this
protocol is to take the mail from the
sender and direct it to the recipient
using an IP address an IP address is
much like a postcode it's the location
of the destination the email bounces
between servers until it reaches the
destination server the recipient is then
notified and the message is retrieved
using another protocol called POP 3 you
will learn more about pop 3 and SMTP
later on for now it's important to know
that they are the protocols used to send
and receive email earlier in this video
you learned about how snail mail
progress to email fundamentally it is
about transferring information the
change in communication Styles was
heavily impacted in the 19th and 20th
Centuries with
globalization communication was affected
by and added to this process after the
stage coach messages were relayed using
steam ships and railroads they became
digitally transformed with the
introduction of the telegraph system
which enabled people to send information
through dots and dashes transferred
across land using wires what is
significant about telegrams as with
emails messages do not need to be
physically transported they are no
longer Tethered to the train or Stage
Coach this leads to an almost instant
transfer of information today this is a
familiar concept mobile phones enable
you to send text images and video at the
touch of a button consider some of the
Revolutionary photos from journalists
that have captured a poignant moment in
history now with phones every incident
is being recorded from different angles
and streamed to the world in real time A
lot has changed since the humble origins
of the written page many social media
platforms now offer instant message ing
as a service as well as the means to
stream to a global community in this
video you learned about how email has
revolutionized the world and enabled
instant communication while you might
take email for granted these days it was
not always widely accepted now it is
part of everyday life and influences how
people live and conduct
business imagine that you have an inbox
filled with hundreds or perhaps
thousands of emails that you've received
over time you don't want to delete them
in case there are a few that will become
useful later but it can also be a
headache dealing with an unorganized
mess so what can you do fortunately
modern email clients offer features that
make it easier to manage your email
earlier you learned about the client
server model where the client sends a
request to the server which then
responds with the service in this video
you'll discover how this model applies
to email allowing you to access your
messages through either an email server
or an email client
after learning how they differ you'll
then explore three popular email clients
earlier you were introduced to email
servers which are specialized servers
devoted to sending and receiving emails
it is hosted by your email provider and
resides on the internet recall that
emails are sent using the simple mail
transfer protocol and retrieved with the
pop three protocol alternatively you
could use an email client which is
typically an application that you
install on your computer A major
advantage of an email client is that it
allows you to access your existing
messages without being online there are
many options available and some of the
most popular include Outlook Gmail and
Thunderbird let's observe each of these
in action starting with
Outlook Outlook allows you to create and
send emails in addition it allows you to
keep a contact list provides a calendar
and supports add-ons such as instant
messaging applications like Microsoft
teams and Skype the calendar is linked
with your contacts so it is possible to
coordinate meetings in which you add
participants through the
contacts Outlook is linked with one
drive and offers 5 gigabyt of cloud
storage for free but this can be
increased up to one terabyte with a
subscription Outlook is both an email
server and an email client so it is
possible to configure it with other
email addresses regardless of their
domain with this Arrangement changes
made to your connected account will be
reflected in Outlook but changes to
Outlook will not be reflected in the
connected account Outlook has a three-
window approach to presenting
information by default your folder list
appears on the left your most recent
emails in the middle and the contents of
a selected email on the
right creating nested folders for
storing emails that act like a directory
is possible this can help organize your
emails there is also functionality for
searching protecting yourself from spam
messages and filtering emails into
specific folders note that the features
available depend on the payment plan you
choose however there is a free version
that will include ads next let's move on
to Google's email service Gmail Gmail
provides all the standard email features
such as sending and receiving messages
and functionalities for searching
filtering and
categorization it does not provide a
folder option instead it uses labels to
organize your data
being a Google product Gmail features an
interface like what you would find on
YouTube or Chrome the display has two
panes one for the Inbox and labels and
the other to display the contents of the
inbox or selected label Gmail does not
provide a computer application so you
need to use a browser to interface with
the server this means that an internet
connection is required to access emails
however there is a Gmail app from mobile
devices so you can use it to access any
emails that are already been retrieved
Gmail is connected to Google Drive
Google's cloud storage
service it also offers 15 gigaby of
storage space and displays ads while
paid subscriptions would increase this
amount this makes it possible to send
large files of any format by first
uploading it to Gmail finally there is
Thunderbird an email client from Mozilla
thunderbit is a crossplatform client
that is compatible with all email
servers it provides only a few of the
features that are built into the other
proprietary email clients you just
learned about as with Outlook you can
create new directories for sorting
emails Thunderbird does not include
cloud storage which means that the size
of the emails is limited to the server
configuration Thunderbird has been
linked to however Thunderbird is open
source which means that it is
customizable and AD free other built-in
features include contacts a calendar and
a to-do list the interface consists of
three panes the left is a list of tasks
the top right is a list of emails and
the bottom is the selected email while
it lacks the training documentation and
Support options available for Outlook or
Gmail Thunderbird is supported by a
vibrant and active community of users
and
developers in this video you learned how
to distinguish between an email server
and an email client you are also made
aware of the features of three popular
email clients which are Outlook Gmail
and Thunderbird you found that as
proprietary packageing Outlook and Gmail
offer integration with other
applications while the open- source
Thunderbird allows for a more
customizable
experience as Sam Scoops expands the use
of on premises computers and other
online devices will increase Sam knows
that you will need data management and
storage solutions to run the store
efficiently and avoid any data loss or
vulnerabilities so she has been
researching options that can meet her
business needs she is looking for a
solution that allows for more storage as
the business grows it should also keep
information secure and gather insights
to help make more informed decisions is
there something out there that will be
the right fit for sound Scoops in this
video you'll discover online storage and
how it can be tailored to a specific
business need specifically you'll focus
on Microsoft Azure storage cloud-based
Computing is an approach that functions
as a pay as you use service you can use
online services instead of purchasing
any hardware cloud storage enables you
to access suitable storage sizes as the
business requires there are different
formats in which the data can be
retained Microsoft Azure an online
storage solution is an important topic
to grasp for exam
sc900 let's explore this further the
Azure storage platform includes the
following data services Azure files
which manages file sharing for
cloud-based storage Azure blob storage
which is a scalable object St for text
and binary data and Azure manage diss
which involves Block Level storage
that's accessible using virtual machines
Azure allows data access through several
methods including HTTP https and rest
API this is the same as accessing a web
page by typing the URL in the search bar
the difference is that you first need to
be authorized to access these sites this
can be useful for remote collaboration
for example say there is a document
saved in Azure files that is edited by
several employees they can access the
document from various locations but each
employee first needs to log in securely
to gain access data is categorized as
structured or unstructured data let's
begin by discussing structured data when
you fill out a form each column has a
name and a place to enter the
appropriate data this is an example of
structured data another example is a
database table in every table there are
rows and columns and each of the values
in the columns relates to the row in
databases information is ordered
according to the schema the schema is
the template a database uses to decide
what type of data goes where next you
have unstructured data which is less
organized with no clear path for
searching or filtering imagine taking
your favorite book separating each page
then placing the individual pages into a
box and shaking it all the information
is still there but there is no structure
in how it is saved you may have have
come across the term blobs blob is an
acronym that stands for binary large
objects and it simply stores
unstructured data as the name suggests
it stores large unstructured objects
examples of unstructured data that a
company may keep include streaming data
from the security cameras or sensor
output data from on- premises devices
imagine that Sam Scoops has installed
several devices on the premises devices
might include live monitoring of
electricity consumption freezer
temperature and door activity like how
often it is opened and how many people
come in it could also include alarm
system outputs blob storage would be
ideal for this unstructured output later
Sam May revisit this information apply
some analytics and extract some business
insights to help reduce cost or improve
sales so how do blobs work blobs are
stored in containers this is like a
filing system where each container has a
general name like pictures or movies
inside this container you can store as
many blobs as required of course the
blobs themselves will be unstructured
and further filtering or searching
methods are needed to find a specific
item inside the blob previously you
learned about solid state drives and
hard dis drives as options for local
storage Azure managed diss offers users
these options in a cloud-based form
recall that this means you can keep a
standard secondary source of information
accessible through the web you can have
the benefits of versatile storage by
integrating Azure managed discs into
your business setup you will not require
Hardware that is often quite costly to
acquire and run and users can specify
the size of their dis according to their
needs to access managed diss a virtual
machine is required you will learn about
these in Greater detail later for now
you should know that they are software
computers that work as if you were
running a CPU Ram or connection this
video covered cloud storage with a focus
on Microsoft Azure you learned about the
three Azure data services which are
Azure files blob storage and manage diss
Sam now knows that the questions to ask
when choosing an approach include what
is the company's business need what type
of information is being stored and how
is the information to be accessed
knowing the answers can help determine
which type of storage is the best fit
for sound
Scoops you might be aware that a common
practice amongst many successful
businesses is to analyze data in order
to generate new insights that can help
guide business decisions for Sam scoops
this might mean observing deeper than
the pure sales numbers for a particular
flavor of ice cream for example is the
flavor more popular with a certain age
group or maybe it sells better on a
specific day of the week it can be
difficult to discern this information
from raw data so in this video you'll
become familiar with data processing
techniques that make it easier to
transform numbers into actionable ideas
data processing can be a useful method
for extracting valuable information from
customer data to demonstrate how it
might be used productively let's walk
through the steps that Sam can follow to
gain insights for Sam Scoops
specifically you'll find out how she can
gather data store it and perform data
analysis visualization and integration
Sam Scoops might want to collect various
types of data such as sales data like
the quantity of each flavor sold
customer data including such details as
name age gender and email address and
marketing data which would tell which
advertising campaigns were the most
effective or Which social media accounts
experience the most engagement some of
this data such as sales numbers will be
gathered naturally while running the
business but other information would
require a dedicated data collection
method for example to learn more about
customer opinions Sam might provide a
form that asks customers about their age
favorite ice cream flavor and how
frequently they visit the shop after
collecting this data Sam would need to
store it somewhere previously you
learned about data Lakes for holding
unstructured data and data warehouses
for storing more organized data
depending on her goals Sam could use
either of these or a combination of
storage methods for example she might
use a relational database to store the
sales and customer data and a data
warehouse to store the marketing data
Sam would need to consider data
architecture such as how the data is
structured and organized to ensure that
it is easily accessible and secure to
make use of this data Sam would need to
analyze it data analysis is a broad
field with many methods and tools
available but let's say that Sam's
primary goal is to find a relationship
between ice cream sales and different
points of the year in this case she
might use Predictive Analytics to
forecast which flavors would be the most
popular during different seasons another
possibility is to use statistical
analysis to identify Trends in sales and
customer Behavior there are also machine
learning processes that can be applied
today data depending on the data type
and the desired outcome machine learning
is a particularly notable technique that
you'll learn more about later even if
data analysis provides enough
information for Sam and her team to
change their business strategy data
visualization would be an important
technique for Sam Scoops to use to
communicate insights from their data to
different stakeholders they might use
charts and graphs to display sales
Trends over time or map customer
locations to identify areas where they
should Target their marketing efforts in
addition being able to display data in a
clear fashion can help integrate the
data for some insights finally Sam
Scoops would need to integrate their
data from different sources to gain a
comprehensive view of their business
they might need to process all of the
data transform it to a common format and
load it into a central repository for
analysis to understand the value of this
practice consider the ways in which Sam
Scoops sells ice cream in addition to
sales from the shop they also deliver to
customers who place orders online or by
phone the data from these channels is
likely quite different and they would
need to combine it in a way that
expresses the bigger picture integrating
data might mean taking observations from
these different settings and using them
to gain a greater understanding of
customers General ice cream
wants in this video you learned about
some common data processing techniques
and discovered how Sam could use them to
learn things about her business that are
not Apparent from the numbers alone data
processing is an important part of any
business and by collecting storing and
analyzing data Sam Scoops can gain
valuable insights and make informed
decisions about their operations and
marketing strategies so far you've
become aware of some techniques for
processing data that can generate
meaningful insights to help Drive
business decisions but did you know that
this doesn't have to be a fully manual
task it is possible to automate much of
of the analysis by training a computer
to do it instead through a process
called machine learning machine learning
is a part of artificial intelligence
that helps machines learn from data and
make predictions it's a way of teaching
a computer to recognize patterns and
make decisions based on what it has
learned for example let's say that Sam's
goal is to more accurately predict
customer behaviors when it comes to
purchases at Sam Scoops she could
accomplish this by analyzing sales data
from previous years and identifying
Trends but doing this manually could
become costly and timec consuming as the
business grows fortunately there are
many great machine learning tools that
could help Sam do this it's like having
a brilliant assistant who can help you
analyze data and make predictions in
this video you'll explore the basics of
machine learning and how it can help
businesses like Sam Scoops make better
decisions you'll also find that it's not
just useful for ice cream shops machine
learning can also be used in cyber
security to help detect and prevent
cyber attacks now let's go through the
steps that Sam can take to use machine
learning for predicting customer demand
in certain conditions to do this Sam
would first need to gather historical
sales data from Sam Scoops specifically
she'll want the sales figures for
different flavors of ice cream on
working days weekends and public
holidays also she needs to record the
outdoor temperature from when certain
ice cream was purchased after collecting
this data s needs to check if it has any
errors or missing values she can use
special tools to look at the data and
find any mistakes like missing or
strange numbers that don't fit the rest
of the data once the data is clean Sam
can choose a good place to build a model
this is called pre-processing which is a
very important step in building a good
machine learning model if the data has
too many errors or mistakes the model
will make poor predictions next Sam can
teach the computer how to find patterns
in the sales St using a set of rules
called algorithms this helps the
computer to better understand the data
finally she can test the computer's
prediction skills by giving it some data
it has never seen before to see if it
can make accurate predictions to
summarize the key steps are gathering
data pre-processing the data to ensure
that it is clean training the computer
on the data using algorithms and testing
the computer's predictive abilities it
might be simple to predict certain
things without the help of machine
learning for example Sam could figure
out which ice cream flavors are the most
popular in a given season just by
observing past sales figures however
machine learning can go further and
identify patterns in the data that are
not readily apparent for example a
trained computer might discover that on
really hot days customers buy ice cream
in plastic boats because cones melt too
quickly or perhaps it finds that
customers buy fewer scoops on colder
days establishing these patterns is
important because when Sam feeds more
data to the learning model later such as
the weather forecast it can make
suggestions about the quantities on the
order form in the previous example you
observed how machine learning can be
trained on data to gain insights from
making more Sound business decisions but
as mentioned earlier it can be applied
to cyber security as well so how would
that work imagine you are a security
specialist and you want to prevent
unauthorized entry into a system you
might set up a rule that too many failed
login attempts will lock an account for
a while or you might note the location
and prevent access if it is different
from what is expected machine learning
can be used to determine which rules to
apply much like how Sam can match ice
cream flavors with the weather you can
train machine learning models using data
from previous hacks the model will then
identify the patterns which can be used
to make rules in this video you've
discovered that machine learning is a
powerful tool that can help businesses
like Sam Scoops make better decisions
and improve improve their operations by
training a learning model with real data
Sam can predict customer demand more
accurately and place orders more
efficiently furthermore machine learning
can be used to create stronger cyber
Security Solutions as machine learning
continues to evolve and become more
accessible it will play an increasingly
important role in businesses across
various Industries perhaps you're aware
that cyber crime is a growing concern
but do you know how it affects
businesses
let's become familiar with some of the
statistics one prevalent method of
attack is spear fishing which is the
practice of sending fraudulent emails
that appear to be from trusted sources
the email typically contains a link or
attachment that when opened installs
malware or has some other harmful effect
according to a 2022 report more than
21,000 incidents were reported in the
United States resulting in billions in
losses how do such attacks happen and
and what is being done about it to get a
better understanding let's first become
familiar with Riley's experience Riley
works as a uiux designer for a company
that creates custom Payroll Solutions
although digital design is his calling
Riley is well-versed in it in general he
is aware of the types of cyber threats
that exist and follows practices to keep
himself safe one day while using his
company issued laptop Riley checks his
inbox and comes across an email from his
supervisor he opens it and finds a
message explaining that a potential
client has submitted a unique request
and Riley is asked to go over the
details in an attached document nothing
seems out of the ordinary so Riley
clicks on the link however rather than
downloading the document he gets stuck
on a loading animation moments later he
hears chatter in the office several
colleagues complain that they can't open
any files in the company's shared cloud
storage that's when it Dawns on Riley
that he has been fooled and the security
of that the company's network has been
compromised many people can identify the
telltale signs of a fraudulent email for
example you might become suspicious when
you receive a message from someone you
know but you notice that the email
address is different from the one they
usually use however cyber criminals are
getting smarter when it comes to
crafting emails that make even the
smallest details appear authentic making
any signs almost undetectable so how can
businesses protect themselves from these
sophisticated threats one answer might
lie with artificial intelligence machine
learning Engineers have created smart
solutions that can catch the small
giveaway details that people often miss
this leads to more capable cyber
security systems that demand less human
vigilance by analizing a sender's emails
a machine can learn to distinguish the
tiny differences that separate a fake
email from the real thing it examines
the source of the sender formatting and
other details that differ from the norm
and then assigns the email to to the
appropriate category such Solutions can
then detect and stop malicious emails
before they ever reach the recipient the
result businesses can rest easy knowing
that they've lowered the risk of an
email attack now let's rewind Riley's
story and find out how a solution like
this can change the outcome Riley opens
his inbox and the first thing he sees is
a notification about a suspicious email
that is supposedly from his supervisor
this message has been quarantined
separately from his inbox and a awaits
his action he asks his supervisor about
it directly and she confirms that the
message didn't come from her crisis
averted Riley responds by reporting the
email to the company it security team no
harm has been done and he continues
about his day thanks to advances in
artificial intelligence and machine
learning there are now new ways to
combat the evolving methods of cyber
criminals and to keep businesses and
their employees
safe well done on completing Business
Systems applications you should now have
a stronger Foundation of knowledge
relating to various Technology Solutions
that businesses use to facilitate tasks
and enhance productivity before you
continue let's recap the key Concepts
that you learned about first you became
familiar with business software
applications and the roles they serve
you should now know that there is
software to address needs in various
parts of a company's operations ranging
from inventory management to financial
analysis business applications can be
lined of Business Solutions or
enterprise resource planning software
line of business applications serve a
specific business need while enterprise
resource planning relates to integrating
several processes to ensure that they
all work together in a coherent way
recall that business software can
consist of single applications or it can
be comprised of several applications
bundled together which typically address
common needs you became aware of
Microsoft's most widely used used
products and services for Enterprises
including word excel PowerPoint and the
Microsoft Dynamics 365 collection of
customer relationship management tools
you then applied all this knowledge in
an exercise that had you identify three
business needs for Sam Scoops and then
explain Which business software
applications could be used to fulfill
those needs afterward You observe some
examples that illustrate how some of
these tools can be put to use in the
workplace specifically you witnessed Sam
might use PowerPoint to style a menu for
the shop word for generating invoice
forms and Excel for recording the
company's budget next you discovered the
role that email plays in business
communication you observed how mail
advanced in parallel with technology
shifting from physical delivery to
electronic means and creating a more
connected world in the process you
should now know how email moves in the
client server model in which a series of
specialized Protocols are used to get a
message from the sender to email server
obers and finally to the recipient you
then explored three popular email
clients namely Microsoft Outlook Google
Gmail and Mozilla Thunderbird you found
that they share some common
functionality such as the ability to
store contacts and organize emails by
category you then moved on to learning
about spam a type of unwanted mail that
can range from Annoying advertisements
to attempted attacks using dangerous
links or attachments fortunately as you
discovered modern email providers
include security features for reporting
and filtering out spam messages to help
keep you safe some of the more dangerous
types of spam that you might recall
include fishing emails which try to
trick people into revealing sensitive
information spoofing emails which are
fraudulent messages that claim to be
from a well-known source and prompt
users to perform actions like sending
payments and spear fishing emails which
are targeted messages that appear to be
from someone you know but may contain
malware or other harmful elements
finally you are introduced to the means
that businesses use for storing and
handling vast amounts of customer data
and why they would want to do so you
found that data can come in structured
or unstructured forms and is typically
stored in a large repository depending
on the needs and intent of the business
raw data can be stored in a data lake or
processed data can be placed in a data
warehouse you should now be aware that
businesses value customer data because
can be analyzed to generate new insights
while this can be done manually on a
small scale for larger volumes companies
may turn to machine learning you learn
that the core steps for training a
machine learning model include Gathering
data pre-processing it for accuracy
using it to train the model and testing
the model's ability to make predictions
with adequate data machines can detect
patterns and make informed guesses about
the outcome of any additional inputs you
also received a pre preview into how
machine learning can be used to create
more intelligent cyber Security
Solutions specifically you explored how
when given examples of fraudulent credit
card transactions a learning model can
eventually distinguish between real and
fake payment based on factors such as
the frequency of activity the location
from where the payment is made and the
amount spent by finishing Business
Systems applications you now have a
better concept of how businesses use
software email and data storage and
processing solutions to assist in daily
operations and to enable smarter
planning nicely done you're nearing the
end of introduction to computers and
operating systems and security by now
you should have a stronger grasp of
several foundational concepts for
understanding cyber security these
include major types of cyber attacks and
how they happen the basics of computers
and operating systems and how they work
solutions for setting up Enterprise
systems and maintaining security and the
common software and tools that
businesses use to enhance productivity
now it's time to demonstrate your
Knowledge and Skills in the final course
assessment but before you jump in let's
recap what you've learned up until now
in the first week you were introduced to
the threat landscape you learned that
this concept consists of three areas
namely the potential vulnerabilities of
an application the attackers looking to
exploit those weaknesses and the type of
attack used after this primer on Cyber
threats you would explored the parts
that make up a Computing device and
enable it to work recall that a computer
consists of Hardware components such as
a hard drive for long-term storage and a
keyboard for input and software which
provides instructions to the hardware
you then discover that these are all
bind together by an operating system
which determines how all these
components communicate with each other
and give the user an interface to
interact with them in the following week
your focus shifted to understanding
computer setups that can meet the
demands of businesses you started by
exploring how servers storage and backup
Solutions are used together as a system
failsafe this practice ensures that a
duplicate of important data is available
in case the original is lost or damaged
in the next lesson you compared
different types of computing
environments you find that there is a
distinction between simple personal
Computing setups intended for individual
users and more powerful commercial
Computing setups for business use
furthermore a business must choose
between having its Computing
infrastructure on premises which allows
for greater control of data at the cost
of less flexibility or operating out of
the cloud which is typically more
costeffective but subject to more
attacks and data regulations you also
received an introduction to security
strategies for both on premises and
cloud computing environments you learned
that while implementation differs for
each approach both are Guided by the
same principles which are prevent
unauthorized access limit mobility
within the system and mitigate any
damage resulting from a breach you
concluded this week with an overview of
Maintenance and patching which are
practices for keeping software running
smoothly and securely you should now
know that because these tasks typically
involve system downtime businesses will
try to perform them in the least
disruptive manner possible this may call
for corrective maintenance to handle
bugs or vulnerabilities before they
become problematic routine maintenance
that is done on a regular schedule or
predictive maintenance that relies on
early action in anticipation of an issue
the third week was all about the
software and solutions that companies
use to meet various business needs which
range from automating invoices to
analyzing customer data to produce new
insights you became aware of individual
Microsoft applications that are common
in the workplace such as word excel and
PowerPoint you then discover that many
business software providers also offer
tailored packages like the Microsoft
Dynamics 365 Suite of customer
relationship management tools tools the
following lesson gave you a broad
overview of email which covered its
history and impact on communication the
protocols used to relay a message from
sender to recipient and a few popular
email clients you also learned about
spam a term that refers to several types
of unwanted emails these can be anything
from Annoying advertisements sent in
bulk to concentrated attacks that seek
to do significant harm however as you
found out most email providers offer
security features such as filtering and
Reporting which makes spam less of an
issue finally you became familiar with
the importance of customer data for
businesses you should now know that data
is typically stored in a data Lake in
the form of raw unprocessed data or in a
data warehouse if the data is already
processed this decision depends on how
the business intends to use the data and
that's it for this review of the course
by now you should have built a solid
base of knowledge about cyber security
threats how computers work and how
businesses use computer computers now
you're ready to tackle the final course
assessment good
luck congratulations you made it to the
end of the introduction to computers and
operating systems and security you're
off to a great start with your cyber
security Learning Journey and you should
now have a better understanding of the
Cyber threat landscape but to better
understand the impact that these threats
have on individuals and businesses you
first expanded your knowledge of the
systems they affect specifically you
learned about the core components of
computers and what they do the role of
operating systems and what businesses
should consider when choosing Computing
environments and software by
successfully completing all the courses
in the program you will receive corsera
certification you will also have a
deeper understanding of cyber security
which will open career opportunities for
you all the courses in this program
including the one you just completed
will help you prepare for the exam sc900
Microsoft security compliance and
identity fundamental
this globally recognized certification
is industry endorsed evidence of your
technical skills and knowledge the exam
sc900 measures your ability to describe
the following concepts of security
compliance and identity the capabilities
of Microsoft Azure active directory as
part of Microsoft entra the capabilities
of Microsoft Security Solutions and the
capabilities of Microsoft compliance
solutions to complete the exam you
should be famili amiliar with Microsoft
Azure and Microsoft 365 and understand
how Microsoft security compliance and
identity strategies provide an endtoend
solution across these platforms please
remember to check out more information
about the exam you can visit the
Microsoft certifications page at
www.learn.cashtracking.com
future cyber security career this course
has enhanced your Knowledge and Skills
in computers operating systems and
security but what comes next there's
more to learn so it's a good move to
register for the next course
introduction to networking and cloud
computing the next course will cover
identifying the main concepts of
networking explaining common Network
infrastructure and monitoring describing
network security components approaches
and mitigation and defining and
explaining key con concepts of the cloud
computing environment virtual machines
and cloud services whether you're just
starting out as a technical professional
a student or a business user completing
the course demonstrates your knowledge
of cyber security the experience you
gained so far will show potential
employers that you are motivated capable
and not afraid to learn new things thank
you it's been a pleasure to embark on
this journey of Discovery with you best
of luck in the
future hello and welcome to this course
on network and cloud computing this
course focuses on the fundamental
concepts of networks and the cloud and
how it relates to cyber security if
you're like most internet users you've
probably got a ton of usernames and
passwords that helps you use the
internet securely but in the world of
cyber security things get much more
complicated especially on the Enterprise
level security breaches can cost
companies Millions which is why the
demand for skilled cyber Security
Professionals is rapidly growing earlier
you gained a show knowledge about
Hardware software and the cyber security
threat landscape but if you are aspiring
to embark on a career in cyber security
it's also essential to understand the
inner workings of networks servers and
cloud computing this course will give
you a solid foundation in these topics
and also introduces cuttingedge
Technologies like Ai and machine
learning that is used to keep sensitive
data secure now let's move on to the
content the course will cover to make
sure you're ready for the Endeavor in
this course you'll be introduced to
computer networking network devices and
protocols network security and cloud
computing and networking to start off
you'll learn about the different types
of networks and when they're used you
will also learn about the different ways
to arrange the physical and logical
structure of a network following this
you will learn about fundamental
concepts such as data transmission and
IP addresses and you'll also complete an
exercise about Network Construction
ction networks consist of many devices
and a career in cyber security requires
that you understand the underlying
architecture that allows these devices
to communicate course content that you
will encounter later will offer insights
into various Network protocols and ports
to which devices connect you will also
be introduced to the concept of hybrid
networking the devices within a network
and how the Internet connects different
networks you will briefly learn about
cloud computing in the different types
as well as the difference between on
premise and the public cloud and you'll
have an opportunity to complete an
exercise focused on the factors that you
must take into account when expanding a
network including the appropriate
architecture and protocols a big part of
a career in cyber security involves
network monitoring you will gain a
background in domain name servers or DNS
and its vulnerabilities this will lay
the foundation for learning more about
health and metric analysis and network
logs and additional diagnostic features
available on the cloud in the next part
of the course you will hone in on
network security and the central role of
servers in a network you will explore
client server communication the
different approaches to authorization
and authentication as well as common
network attack types following this
you'll also learn about firewalls and
discover common firewall protocols
threats and security tools week four is
all about Microsoft Azure and its
various functionalities you will
discover what virtualization is and
explore the role of machine learning and
AI in cloud computing you will also
explore the different types of cloud
services that form part of the cloud
networking landscape such as software as
a service and anything as a service
after all of this you will be ready for
the course project in week five which
consists of developing a coherent
expansion plan for a business Enterprise
to take advantage of cloud
infrastructure after this Hands-On
learning you will complete a final
graded assessment but be assured that
everything you need to complete the
assessment will be covered during your
learning with each lesson made up of
video content readings and quizzes
throughout this course you will get the
opportunity to apply your newly gained
skills in exercises and self- reviews
before going through an Exemplar as a
possible solution to the challenge
you're presented with the great thing is
you do not need a background and it
related fields to take this course this
course is for anyone who has an affinity
for technology and an interest in cyber
security when you successfully complete
this program you'll earn a certificate
to share with your Professional Network
completing this program not only sets
you on your path to a career in cyber
security but is also a great way to
prepare for the Microsoft sc900 exam by
passing the sc900 exam you'll earn the
Microsoft security compliance and
identity fundamental
certification earning a Microsoft
certification is globally recognized
evidence of Real World skills it shows
your commitment to keeping Pace with
rapidly changing technology by expanding
your skill set in your professional
roles in summary this course provides
you with a complete introduction to
networking and the cloud and you'll have
the opportunity to explore and plan a
digital transformation using your
knowledge of networks and cloud
computing now that you've reached the
end of this course introduction it's
time to get started on your cyber
security
Journey today individuals organizations
and companies and the World At Large
rely on some type of network to stay
connected imagine a busy office with
employees typing away of their computers
sending emails sharing files and talking
on the phone that wouldn't be possible
without a network but of course there
are different types of area networks
that serve different purposes remember
Sam who is opening a physical store as
part of her ice cream business a small
office like hers would probably have a
local area network or Lan to connect the
devices while a large Network like the
internet requires a completely different
setup over the next few minutes you'll
explore the different types of networks
used in today's ultrac connected world
and come to understand the different
types in modern Computing to begin let's
first review what a network is a network
nwor is a group of connected devices
that can communicate with one another
and share resources an office Network
might not be all that complex but
unexpected issues can arise with both
complex and simple networks because both
depend on multiple connections these
days as more and more people work
remotely proper networking has become
even more important because it enables
people to work in different locations
while still accessing the same resources
networking is a fundamental component of
modern Computing making it crucial to
learn for anyone who wants to pursue a
career in it or Implement basic
networking at home and or at the office
let's now explore the different types of
networks first is the smallest Network a
pan or personal area network which is
used to connect devices located close to
each other such as a smartphone and a
smartwatch Bluetooth is the most common
technology used in pans and you already
know about Lan or local area networ
Network a network that connects devices
in a small area like a home or an office
like Sam's people use this kind of
network to share things like printers
files and the internet between devices
this example illustrates a typical
household landan with two laptops a
printer a desktop PC television and a
phone all connected to a router the
router is then connected to a modem
which enables the land to connect to the
internet some local area Networks use
wires to connect the devices and others
use Wi-Fi in modern homes appliances
like phones Smart TVs and fridges can
also be part of a lan which means they
can talk to each other and share
resources next is a w Lan or Wireless
local area network a type of network
that uses Wireless technology to connect
devices Wi-Fi is the most common
Wireless technology used this kind of
network is convenient because it
eliminates the need for cables and it
can be accessed from anywhere within the
range of the network and then there's a
Wan or wide area network that is used to
connect lands that are in separate
locations WS cover vast areas like a
city or even a whole country the
internet is an example of a wide area
network such a network can use different
Technologies like least lines satellites
and wireless connections to connect
local area networks covering a small
smaller area than a Wan but larger than
a lan is a metropolitan area network or
man a man is used to connect local area
networks located in different buildings
or neighborhoods within the city it is
mostly used by organizations that have
multiple locations within a city there
is also a specialized type of network a
storage area network or sand which is
used to provide multiple servers access
to storage devices such as hard drives
this this kind of network is used by
organizations that have a large amount
of data that needs to be stored and
accessed quickly when a sand is used the
client machine is connected to a lan
which connects to a server which in turn
connects to the
storage last is a virtual private
Network or VPN which is a type of
network used to provide a secure
connection between two devices over an
unsecured Network like the internet a
VPN encrypts the data being transmitted
making it difficult for anyone to
intercept or read the data vpns are used
by individuals and organizations to
provide secure remote access to their
networks as you have learned in this
video there are many types of networks
from pans that connect devices close to
each other via Bluetooth to WS that
connect devices spread over a whole
country and there are also specialized
networks used for storage or security
like Sans and vpns in conclusion
networks play an essential role in
connecting people and devices enabling
the transfer of information and
resources between
them you now know about different types
of area networks but you also have to
consider how best to arrange a Network's
physical and logical structure this
Arrangement is called the Network's
topology and there are several options
to choose from think about Sam's small
office at the ice cream store you would
have to pick a topology you think would
work best but how do you decide what
kind to use in this video you will learn
about different types of topologies and
their advantages and disadvantages to
help you make an informed decision about
which one would work best for your setup
the term topology refers to the
Network's shape and networks can take
several different shapes these include
bus ring star mesh and tree topologies a
network topology determines how devices
are connected and data travels through
the network understanding Network
topology is important to ensure
efficient communication and sharing of
resources between devices let's examine
the different types of topologies used
in modern networks first is bus topology
which is when all devices are connected
to a single cable or line the cable acts
as a backbone and the devices are linked
to it through connectors in this type of
topology data is sent from one device to
another by broadcasting it on the cable
all devices on the network receive the
data but only the device that the data
is intended for processes it bus
topology is best for small networks with
few devices that are located close
together for example devices in multiple
rooms of a household that can be
connected with a single line the
advantage of a bust topology is that it
is simple and easy to install however a
disadvantage is that the entire network
will fail if the cas cable is cut or
damaged next is ring topology which
connects devices in a loop or Circle
data is sent from one device to another
in a specific order and each device
repeats the data before passing it on to
the next device in a ring topology data
travels in only one direction and the
devices are linked to each other through
connectors ring topology is usually used
for high-speed data transfers between
devices in a closed loop network with
when the data needs to travel in a
specific direction from one device to
another the advantage of a ring topology
is that it is efficient because data
travels in only one direction however a
disadvantage is that the entire network
can fail if one device fails in a star
topology devices are connected to a
central switch the switch acts as a
central control point for the network
and all data is sent through it in a
start topology each device is connected
to the switch with its own cable this is
the most common topology used in homes
or small offices like Sam's because its
setup is simple and it provides and
maintains good performance it's also
very simple to troubleshoot because it's
easy to isolate and investigate one
device without affecting others and if
one device fails the rest of the network
can continue to
operate however a disadvantage is that
the entire network can fail if the
switch fails next is mesh topology in
which devices are connected to each
other in a network of interlocking nodes
an interlocking node is when a device is
connected to two or more devices in a
mesh Network in such an arrangement data
can be sent from one device to another
through multiple paths and there's no
central point of control mesh topology
is a good choice when the reliability is
important because if one path fails data
can be sent through another path however
a disadvantage is that setting up and
installing can be complex and expensive
last is the tree topology in this case
devices are connected to a central bus
or line and then subnetworks are created
with their own bus or line each subn
Network can then have its own tree
topology tree topology is also known as
hierarchical topology it is used from
medium to large-sized networks where
multiple star topologies need to be
connected to each other the advantage of
a tree topology is that it can be used
to create very large networks however a
disadvantage is that the entire network
can fail if the central bus or line
fails it is important to note that
technology changes and are updated all
the time so some of these topologies are
not in use anymore for example ring
networks have also been replaced by
switches and routers and bus topology is
now only used when you're using hubs
hubs are are mainly used to connect
computers to a network physically
however they only allow one device to
communicate at a time switches connects
devices in the same way except they
allow simultaneous communication like in
a start apology and that's why hubs have
been replaced by switches in nearly all
networks in this video you learned about
Network topologies their advantages
disadvantages and how they are used the
choice of topology depends on factors
like cost scalability and the
availability of resources and expertise
but it also depends on the specific
needs and requirements of the network
for example start topologies are a great
option for smaller networks as they are
relatively easy to install and maintain
while mesh topologies might be better
suited for larger networks due to their
higher fault tolerance and redundancy by
understanding the different network
topologies you can make informed
decisions about organizing a network and
ensure that it is reliable efficient and
easy to
maintain by now all the devices in Sam's
office are connected to a switch but she
is wondering if that means that all the
devices can communicate with one another
what would your answer to her be the
real question here is how do the devices
in a network find and contact each other
well it's useful to think about how
unique physical addresses make it
possible to send Parcels across the
world to specific destination similarly
in a network devices also have unique
addresses so that data packets can be
sent to them in this video you will
learn about the Internet Protocol IP
addresses and how the different parts of
an IP address are identified and used
the Internet Protocol or IP defines a
set of rules and how data is sent from
one device to another on the internet
these rules include how data is routed
and addressed to travel across all the
networks that make up the internet any
device that connects to the internet or
a computer network has to have an IP
address to communicate although IP
developments are still happening today
the 1st of January 1983 marks the day
when a standard for data communication
was created this standard TCP IP really
gave momentum to the expansion of the
internet TCP stands for transmission
control protocol and you will learn more
about TCP IP later but for now it's
important to know that the IP part of
this standard concentrates on the
addressing of devices and the routing of
data across the network it's not
concerned with how the data is ordered
or verified it just focuses on where
data is going and how it gets there and
it uses a system known as IP addresses
an IP address simply identifies a device
on a network so data can be delivered to
it just like the delivery of parcels the
most common addressing used today is
Internet Protocol version 4 or
ipv4 for instance you can assign an ipv4
address to each device on Sam's Network
so that they can identify one another
and send and receive data let's examine
the structure of an ipv4 address more
closely an ipv4 has four decimal numbers
each in the range of 0 to
255 and separated by a DOT it's also
known as the dotted decimal format an
example of an IP address is 1
192.168.0.1 but what do these numbers
mean well think of how postal or
Delivery Systems use post codes or zip
codes to move a parcel to the correct
area before processing more specific
detail like the neighborhood hood and
Street number the same can be said of an
IP address you can break it down into
two parts the network a device as part
of and then the device itself which is
called a host in IP addressing but the
network and host Parts differ depending
on the network class there are a number
of different network classes and they
are used for different sized networks
for instance an a class network is used
for large corporations the next class is
a bclass and there are four medium-sized
businesses and then there's the C-Class
that is used for home networks and small
businesses like Sam's let's use the
address 1
192.168.0.1 for a device on Sam's
Network for this C-Class Network the
first three decimal numbers cover the
network part of the IP address in this
example that's 1
192.168
8.0 this part is unique to the network
and specifies the class of the network
the last decimal number is the host part
of the IP address in the example that's
one this number represents the device
and has to be unique within the network
to avoid address conflicts the device
number could range from 1 to
255 more than enough for Sam to expand
her network with more devices you now
know that ipv4 addresses have a network
part and a host part and that these
parts might vary depending on the class
of the network but how do you know which
part is which the Internet Protocol uses
something called a subnet mask to
identify the network and host portions
of the address a subnet mask uses the
same format as an IP address starting
from the left it identifies which of the
four decimal numbers separated by a DOT
belong to the the network side of the
address each of these sections is called
an octet there are three common subnet
masks and they are used for different
network classes for example an a class
Network uses the subnet mask
255.0.0.0
here the first octet is the network part
and the last three octets are the host
part on the other hand a b-class network
uses the subnet mask 255 .
255.0.0.0
55.25
5.0 here the first three octets are the
network part and only the last octet is
the host part let's revisit the earlier
example of an IP address for Sam's
Network which was 1
192.168.0.1 since it's a cclass network
you would use the subnet mask of
255.255.255.0 to identify the network
part in this video you learned that
Internet Protocol or IP is an addressing
system for devices on a network just
like area ZIP codes and street addresses
in the real world so you can tell Sam
that the devices on her network most
likely cannot find and communicate with
one another because they haven't been
assigned IP addresses yet you now know
about different network class types and
that Sam's Scoops only has a small
Network and will therefore use the IP
address format for class seat Network
and that the network and host sections
of their IP addresses can be identified
using a subnet mask there there's a lot
more to data transmission but you now
have the foundational knowledge about
how devices on networks across the world
identify and locate one
another Sam scoop's office now has ipv4
addresses assigned to the devices in the
local network allowing them to
communicate but what if Sam wants to
expand this network to other areas of
the shop maybe to the shop floor how
would existing devices on the office
Network locate a newly connect a device
on the shop floor earlier you learned
that ipv4 uses broadcast traffic to find
devices on a network that they haven't
communicated with yet just like shouting
someone's name in a large Hall the
downside is that broadcast traffic can
slow Sam's Network down but fortunately
there is a way to reduce broadcasting
traffic which is what this video is
about in this video you will learn how
IP networks are split into smaller
sections and how data or IP packets are
routed between networks let's get
started let's go back to the example of
trying to find a specific person in a
large Hall by shouting their name now
imagine the whole world is in that Hall
and that you're trying to find just one
person an impossible task and it is the
same for networks you can't place all
devices on one giant Network and expect
them to find one another well at least
not very quickly this is why you need to
split networks into smaller sections
called subnets subnets are lots of small
networks that are all connected to form
larger networks in fact the entire
internet is made up of networks with
subnets that are all connected subnets
provide a way for you to implement
logical divisions within your network by
segmenting networks into subnets you can
improve security increase performance
and make networks easier to manage but
with so many subnets spread over the
Internet devices need to know how how to
send data or IP packets to all the
different subnets even a small Network
like Sam's can consist of two separate
subnets the office and the shop floor
and the devices on both subnets need a
way to send data to each other this is
where routers can help because they can
route IP packets from one network to
another routers have many functions
within the network one of which is to
provide an exit point from a network
which is called IP default gateway but
you will learn more about this later in
this video first let's focus on how
routers choose the best paths well
routers are pretty smart they can learn
routers learn about all the possible
networks that normally exist in their
vicinity and with this information they
create a routing table that tells them
what direction and cable they should use
to send information to different
networks this is very similar to
satellite navigation systems your GPS
gives you your position and your route
is plotted to your destination but
routers can also gossip they learn about
the different paths to networks from
other routers and talking to other
routers about different routes to
networks speeds up their learning clever
don't you think by now you know that
routers send IP packets between networks
but how does a device on a network such
as one of Sam's laptops in the office
know if the intended destination for an
IP package is on its own or another
Network this is where subnet masks come
in Sam's office network is a Class C
Network and uses the IP network of 1
192.168.0.0 the subnet mask associated
with this address is
255.255.255.0 remember this means the
first three octets 1 192 .1
68.0 is the network portion of the
address and the last octet is for the
hosts in the office and can range from 0
to
255 but say the shop floor also has a
class seat Network and consequently uses
the same subnet mask this means the
network IP address will have to be
different let's say its address is 1
192.168.1.0 the Third octet now has a
one instead of a zero making it a
different network address so a laptop in
Sam's office will use the subnet mask to
compare its own IP address against the
destination address of the IP packets it
does this to determine if the network
part of the address differs from its own
IP address if it differs the laptop
forwards the relevant IP packets to the
router which will route it to the
correct device in the other subnet so so
essentially all devices on a network
send IP packets intended for a device on
another Network to the IP address of the
router and the router handles it from
there this address is called the IP
default gateway and it's basically the
address of the exit point of a network
these IP addresses now act as the
default gateways in each separate
Network in this video you learned that
networks are split into smaller networks
known as subnets and that routers are
used to Route packets across different
networks devices send data intended for
another Network to the IP default
gateway which is the IP address of the
router fortunately because of subnetting
routers and IP default gateways the
devices on Sam's Network do not need to
shout endlessly to locate other devices
on the internet this improves the
security and performance of Sam's
Network and make it easier to manage
you've reached the end of this
introductory week about computer
networking at this point you should have
a solid foundation in the following
computer networks and how data gets
transmitted across a network different
network types and topologies what
internet Protocols are used for as well
as key aspects of Ip addressing it's
time to take the module quiz but before
doing so let's recap what you've learned
so far in the very first lesson you
prepare to get the most out of this
course by going through the course
introduction video and syllabus and then
sharing what you hope to learn with your
peers following this you started your
networking journey by learning about
types and
topologies you now know the network
types refer to the different ways
devices can be connected to one another
to communicate and share resources you
covered all types of networks from the
smallest Network a personal area network
to the biggest Network type a wide area
network like the internet on the other
hand topology refers to the Network's
shape and networks can take several
different shapes like the bus star and
tree topologies a network topology
determines how devices are connected and
data travels through the network for
instance a star topology is the most
common topology used in a home or small
office Network because it is simple to
set up and easy to troubleshoot this is
because it allows you to isolate and
investigate devices without affecting
other network devices do you recall the
difference between a physical and
logical topology physical topology
refers to how network devices are
arranged and connected in a visible
layout like a map depicting buildings
and the streets that connect them
whereas a logical topology is all about
the path data takes as it is transmitted
through the network for instance a
physical diagram of a hub is a star
topology it depicts how the devices are
connected with cables but it doesn't
tell you what happens inside the devices
to understand how data flows in the
network you must examine the logical
diagram which in this case is a bust
apology that means that hubs share the
network resources with all devices but
only one device can send data at a time
next you gained insight into the steps
involved when data travels along a
network and the security concerns
involved in data transmission can you
recall the steps during data
transmission they involve preparing the
data the sender initiating the
transmission breaking data into packets
and addressing packets the next step is
transmitting packets then receiving them
next reassembling packets and finally
delivering the reassemble data you
learned that attackers use several
techniques to steal user data including
eavesdropping data tempering fishing and
M Weare you will cover these attack
types in a lot more detail later in this
course next you participated in an
exercise about configuring a physical
Network topology for Sam Scoops this was
just the start of your journey with the
ice cream startup and its Network needs
as you gain knowledge about networking
and cloud computing throughout this
course you will improve Sam's network
but back to what you learned this week
you learned all about IP addressing you
learned that the internet protocol or IP
is a set of rules for how data is sent
from one computer to another on the
internet and uses a code system known as
IP addresses an IP address identifies a
device on a network so data can be
delivered to it just like zip codes and
street addresses are used to deliver
physical Parcels you built on this
foundational knowledge about IP
addressing by exploring the two
different ways how IP addresses are
assigned to devices on networks static
IP address address assignment which
involves manual configurations and can
be time consuming and dynamic IP address
assignment which is easier because it
automatically configures IP addresses
for network devices you also learned the
difference between ipv4 and
IPv6 ipv4 was introduced when the
internet was initially launched in the
1980s but the world soon ran out of IP
addresses for the billions of devices
connected to the internet an expanded
address space was needed and that's why
IPv6 uses a 128bit address compared to
the 32bit address of
ipv4 IPv6 offers trillions and trillions
of more IP addresses than ipv4 then you
learned the valuable skill of checking
the IP address of a Windows computer or
a Mac as well as an Apple and Android
mobile device now that was useful don't
you think finally by the end of the
lesson you learned that networks can be
split into smaller Networks known as
subnets which enables you to create
logical divisions in a network and that
routers route packets across different
networks and act as default IP gateways
by providing an exit point from a
network for data destined for other
subnets and that's it you should now
have a good idea about which items you
might like to revisit to refresh your
memory before taking the module quiz on
computer
networking then over the next week you
will expand your knowled of data
transmission by diving deeper into
network devices and protocols good
luck as you now know a network is a
group of interconnected devices that
share resources and communicate with
each other there are different types of
networks and the topic of this video is
hybrid
networking previously you were tasked
with building a physical Network
topology for Sam Scoops with wi devices
connected to a network switch the
network works well but it's frustr
rating to only be able to access the
network from the office because it
complicates tasks such as taking
inventory what can Sam do to solve the
problem perhaps you should consider
using a hybrid Network let's examine
what a hybrid Network offers Sam's
business by exploring different network
device types and how they can be
connected a hybrid network is a network
or combination of networks they use
different connective Technologies to
link devices an example of a hybrid
network is a mobile phone because it can
support Wi-Fi and Cellular
Connections and manual laptops can
support three different types of
connection wired Wireless and sometimes
cellular a hybrid Network brings
together all of this
technology a hybrid Network can also be
as simple as having both a wired
connection and wireless connectivity on
one home network using a wireless router
supporting boat this setup provides more
flexibility for users because there's
more than one way for them to connect to
the network and they're not confined to
a location close to a cable right now
Sam Scoops Network relies only on wired
connections so it's not a hybrid Network
because of its flexibility you can
already recognize that a hybrid network
is a good choice for Sam's business but
it's not just the connectivity and
flexibility that are vital and it's also
crucial to remember that a network
should always be designed to easily
upscale with a business when it requires
new devices to be accommodated
hybrid networks are well suited to
upscaling and this is definitely another
important consideration in Sam's choice
of network a hybrid Network set up for
Sam's business could be like this one
where some devices have wired
connections to a network switch and
others are connected wirelessly to a
router note that this network is
connected to the internet so it'll need
certain components like a modem and a
firewall to make such a connection
possible let's go through the components
that make up a hybrid Network starting
with a network switch like the one Sam
has in her current Network a switch is
designed to have many ports so that you
can connect many different devices to it
with cables they are often referred to
as ethernet switches because they allow
you to use ethernet cables to connect
laptops computers printers and other
devices to a
network you've learned about routers
earlier which are used to interconnect
networks it only has a few ports to
connect wired Networks remember a router
uses IP addresses to forward data to the
correct Network and Route it across the
best paths routers can also interconnect
different connection types such as wired
and wireless Technologies they are the
devices that truly interconnect to
different network technology so if sem's
Network were to be a hybrid one it would
definitely need a router what's more is
that wireless technology can be added to
a router to create a wireless router
which is what many homes have today one
device can act as a switch a router and
a wireless device
allinone however such an all-in-one
device is limited by the number of ports
it has so there may be a need for more
switches next is a modem a device that
connects a network to the internet via
an internet service provider and that
converts older technology that doesn't
understand digital signals digital
signals are patterns of ones and zeros
while older technology uses analog
signals for example many older telephone
circuits use an analog signal but the
technology is slowly being phased out
much like a switch and a router a modem
can be built into a router to make an
interconnected
Powerhouse finally there is the firewall
the security guard of the network you
will learn more about firewalls later in
this course but for now it's enough to
know the following a firewall defends
both the network and the devices
attached to it by not allowing anything
in from outside the network unless it
has been granted permission and it's
typically placed on the edges of your
network or where the most significant
threat from an attack could come from
like the Internet by default a firewall
allows traffic from the network it's
protecting to go out to other networks
typically the internet as well as the
replies to that traffic but it will
block anything originating from the
outside unless it's allowed by the
firewall rules but you will learn more
about this later in this course
firewalls can also be built into routers
especially for homes and small
businesses but larger businesses usually
need Extra Protection so in that case
they are separate devices many other
network devices exist although some
technology has been retired or merged
into other devices like a router which
can perform many tasks other devices
perform but in a lot of cases scale
becomes a problem having one device to
do it all is is acceptable in your home
when only a few people use the network
but in an office you could have hundreds
of employees that's when you use devices
confined to what they're good at this is
so that they can be optimized to perform
at high speeds rather than perform
hundreds of different jobs this means
that Sam's network will probably not
rely on only one device to do it all
because it'll make it more difficult to
upscale as the business grows nearly all
networks today are hybrid even if you
only have one device at home like a
wireless router it could perform many
tasks creating a hybrid Network or you
could have several devices each
performing their own role hybrid
networks come in many different shapes
and sizes but it's the mix of
connectivity types that makes them
hybrid adding Wireless connectivity
would greatly benefit Sam because it'll
allow her employees to move around
without being tied to a desk but still
be connected to the network so a hybrid
Network seems the way to go go but it's
not just about flexibility and
convenience a hybrid network is also
easier to upscale as a business grows
making it an attractive choice for Sam
Scoops an office Network without an
internet connection is limited to only
the hardware in that Network in Sam's
office this means that their storage is
limited to the storage on the laptops
with all the inventory taking and sales
data they need to keep that storage will
eventually run low so what can a
business like Sam scoops do if it has
additional computational and storage
needs that the devices in their internal
Network can't meet in such a case
connecting the network to the internet
is a GameChanger because suddenly the
business has access to near unlimited
storage and Powerful processors offered
by cloud computing but what exactly is
cloud computing in this video you will
be introduced to the topic of cloud
computing in the different types of
cloud environments and their uses let's
start with what exactly cloud computing
is you know your computer has specific
necessary components to make it run like
a CPU RAM and storage these are known as
your Computing and storage resources the
resources in your machine can only do so
much since there are limits to their
capacities and you can only add so many
physical resources to a computer cloud
computing is all about taking those
limited resources and expanding them it
does so by giving you access to many
more components than your physical
machine can handle and the location
where these components are organized are
called Data Centers in a data center all
the components are spread across
hundreds of servers sometimes thousands
you can imagine a data center as one
giant computer that provides Computing
and storage resources for it to work
each data center has to have a
connection to a network which in most
cases is the internet the internet
connection makes the resources available
to anyone who needs them and has allowed
Cloud technology to expand very quickly
with within cloud computing you have
three main types public private and
hybrid with a fourth lesser known type
known as
multicloud a public cloud is operated
and owned by a third party providing all
the Computing and storage resources and
managing the hardware maintenance and
power requirements these Computing and
storage resources are spread worldwide
across many different data centers ready
for anyone to buy and use Microsoft
Azure is one of the biggest providers of
public cloud services to give you an
idea Microsoft has data centers in many
different regions their distribution
includes Europe North and South America
the southern part of Africa as well as
the Middle East Asia Australia and New
Zealand Public clouds aren't ideal for
everyone for some a private cloud makes
more sense a company might decide to
have its own data center which could be
a small room to service just that
building or the business as a whole
typically it's used just for employees
of that business the company is
responsible for buying and maintaining
the equipment and powering it
governments and militaries also use a
private Cloud to provide an extra layer
of security third is a hybrid Cloud
which interconnects public and private
clouds with hybrid Cloud a company might
have some Services running on their own
data centers but others on a public
Cloud this provides a degree of
flexibility between the two options as
both have advantages and disadvantages
and last is the multicloud multicloud is
newer than the previous three types and
has come about due to the popularity of
the public Cloud this type is when we
use more than one type of public cloud
provider you will use a multicloud if
you're using a mix of services and
features but what does using cloud
computing entail for a small business
the cloud can run a website or provide
additional services to customers but the
most common use is for data storage
organizations need data storage because
they gather so much information from all
the applications people use this
information can then be used in data
analysis tasks to identify Trends and
help develop new technology it's not
just organizations that need to store
data think about your memories maybe you
have many photos on your phone and need
extra storage which the cloud provides
but you probably use cloud computing in
everyday life not just for photos
just take your phone how many apps does
it have most if not all of them rely on
the cloud like for example a video
streaming service requires the cloud to
store and stream shows and movies to you
and even sending a message by email or
in a messaging platform require Services
spread across the cloud all the services
needed to run these apps have to be on a
server somewhere or even spread across
multiple servers in the cloud to
summarize cloud computing can easily
expand a business's capabilities by
providing additional Computing and
storage resources in a data center or
series of data centers and there are
four types of cloud computing public
private hybrid and multicloud each type
of cloud comes with its own
characteristics and a business's choice
of cloud is determined by its needs Sam
Scoops can save money by using a cloud
service before its storage Runs Out
cloud computing is an exciting topic and
probably want to know more especially
because it's a major consideration in
cyber security don't worry you'll learn
more about this topic later in this
course earlier you configured a physical
Network for Sam Scoops so that all
devices can communicate with one another
but Sam simply cannot get the computer
of one of her employees to send files to
the printer she calls you for advice
where do you start to troubleshoot the
problem by now you are confident in how
network works but designing
troubleshooting or changing a network
can be tricky considering all the
different processes and network
components involved it is useful to
think of the flow of communication over
a network in terms of a model and that
is why the open systems interconnection
model or OSI model is so handy in this
video you will learn all about the
features of the OSI model what it does
and its benefits and drawbacks the OSI
model is a theoretical model that
explains how data travels from one
device to another over a network it
separates the communication process into
smaller parts or layers which makes it
easier to understand specific aspects of
data transmission and it also makes sure
that communication between computers is
set up in a consistent and efficient way
introduced in 1978 The OSI model
describes networking as a series of
protocol layers with specific functions
allocated to each layer
each layer offers specific services to
higher layers while hiding the details
of the implementation of those Services
a well-defined interface between each
pair of adjacent layers defines the
services offered by the lower layer to
the higher one and how those services
are accessed The OSI model consists of
seven unique layers each with a specific
role let's explore what happens in each
of them from the bottom the OSI model
has a physical layer data link layer
Network layer transport layer session
layer presentation layer and an
application layer the bottom layer or
the physical layer converts the data
into Wireless or electrical signals for
transmission through the air or through
cables the next layer the data link
layer ensures that the data is ready for
transmission by making sure it is
reliable and error free the network
layer selects the best path to route
data packets over a network and
addresses devices with the ipv4 and IPv6
protocols then the transport layer
establishes connections between devices
and can ensure reliable transport
between the two the fifth layer the
session layer is responsible for
managing communication sessions or
States between
applications next up the presentation
layer's role is quite interesting since
it deals with data formatting encryption
cryption and data presentation and the
final layer or the application layer
plays an essential role by enabling the
users or devices to communicate with
each other this layer provides an
interface with which you can access the
network to perform the necessary tasks
now that you know how the OSI model
structures data transmission in layers
it is possible to troubleshoot the
printer issue in Sam's office you can
start by examining what layers within
the model are being used for the
computer to talk to the printer to
identify where possible problems might
exist using this approach to
troubleshooting you can examine Sam's
Network by starting at the physical
layer that would involve checking that
all the cables are connected to the
switch say you find that one laptop's
cable is disconnected by simply
following The Logical layers of the OSI
model you could identify the issue and
resolve it by connecting the cable to
the switch again that was useful don't
you think next let's discuss some pros
and cons of the OSI model the first
advantage of the OSI model is that it
provides an organized structure by
dividing the functions of a network into
seven transparent layers this makes it
easier for Network administrators and
Engineers to understand the flow of data
and troubleshoot problems the OSI model
is also widely accepted and standardized
this simplifies communication and
collaboration between different networks
and vendors
lastly its modular design offers
flexibility each layer in the OSI model
can be modified or improved
independently without affecting the
other layers this modular design makes
it easier to adapt to Modern
Technologies in the everchanging
networking world but just like any other
system The OSI model also has some
drawbacks The OSI model can be hard for
novice Network administrators to
understand to apply it practically
requires is a comprehensive
understanding of its many layers and
functions because of the theoretical
nature of the OSI model it's mostly used
for educational purposes and may not
always match how networks are set up in
real life another disadvantage is that
by breaking down the functions of a
network into seven layers it adds some
extra steps which can slow down the
speed of data transmission lastly
implementing the OSI model involves a
lot of planning and hard work and can
therefore be timec consuming
despite its disadvantages The OSI model
can still be useful especially to
troubleshoot network problems like Sam's
unplugged cable and in this video you
learned that it can help you understand
data transmission across a network you
also discovered the Seven distinct
layers of this model and their functions
the OSI model is an essential framework
for understanding how communication
occurs between different network devices
because it offers a standardized
approach to network communication
now that you are familiar with the open
systems interconnection or OSI model and
the concept of layered architecture you
should have a clear understanding of how
communication happens over networks like
the one used by Sam Scoops isn't it
amazing to think of the massive scale at
which data flows all around the world
daily millions of devices talk to one
another over all kinds of networks an
important factor that makes this
possible is the rule book that
determines how the this constant data
transfer happens earlier you learned
that the Internet Protocol or IP gives
unique IP addresses to each device on
the network to make sure packets of data
arrive at the correct destination you
can probably guess that IP is part of
the communication rule book in this
video you will learn more about the
other rules or protocols that make
network communication work most
importantly the transmission control
protocol or TCP together the two
Protocols are referred to as the TCP IP
suite and it also has a layered
architecture like the OSI model tcpip is
the primary protocol used all over the
world by millions of devices to send
information online on different kinds of
networks by now you know data
transmission involves several steps and
TCP IP plays a significant role in these
steps you can think of it as a big post
office where data is broken down into
small packets and sent to their
destination data is broken up into
smaller packets so that multiple
computers can send data each taking
quick turns it also increases
transmission rates by not clogging up
the line the Internet Protocol or IP
ensures the packets get to the right
destination and the transmission control
protocol or TCP makes sure the packets
arrive safely and in the correct order
this way even if some packages get lost
along the way TCP will send them again
to make sure the information gets to the
destination intact data transmission in
TCP IP involves several steps to make
sure that the data gets to the right
place in perfect form and these steps
happen in different layers let's examine
the steps in more detail First Data is
divided into smaller parts called
packets before being sent over the
network these packets then travel over
the network which may be physical wires
or Wireless signals to reach their
destination the next step is the
reception of the packets the destination
device collects all the packets and puts
them back together to recreate the
original data but sometimes data can get
lost along its Journey so the fourth
step is to make sure all the packets are
correct and have arrived in the right
order for this reason the TCP protocol
adds extra information to each segment
of data known as is a sequence number
and an acknowledgement number to better
understand this process imagine sending
a parcel across the world you would want
to know that it arrives safely right
well you can track your parcel as its
barcode gets scanned along the way this
allows you to know where it is on its
Journey if it has arrived at its
destination or if it got lost now
imagine sending 10 Parcels but they have
to be opened in a specific order for
them to make sense so you number each
parcel so that the receiver knows in
what order to open them well this is
what TCP does the sequence number is the
order of the packets and the
acknowledgement number is used to check
if they arrived if any of the parcels
get lost an acknowledgement number is
not sent back to the receiver after a
timeout period the sender will know it
has to send the packet again when
delivered successfully an
acknowledgement will be sent back to
close the process but the TCP delivery
check process can only happen once
devices have found each other over the
network and this happens next with the
IP protocol which you've learned about
earlier in essence the data with all the
applied TCP IP protocols is signals sent
across cables or wirelessly to their
destination these signals are in the
form of digital zeros and ones known as
binary next let's unpack this process as
it happens in the layers of the TCP IP
stack the four layers are the
application layer the transport layer
the internet layer and the network
interface or data link layer remember
the OSI model the bottom layer is the
network interface or data link layer and
is the physical link between the
computer and the network it is
responsible for sending and receiving
data over the network using Hardware
such as network adapters the next layer
the internet layer forwards packets from
the source to the destination the
transport layer works in the background
and ensures that the data is sent
reliably meaning all data packets are
verified by the TCP
protocol but this takes time so for data
that needs to be transmitted quickly
like video data this layer uses another
protocol the user datagram protocol or
UDP UDP does not include verification
and thus speeds up the transmission and
the top layer the application layer
deals with the applications running on
the devices and the data that they
generate in other words it provides an
interface for the user to access network
resources while watching this video
you've most likely realized that your
devices constantly use TCP IP to send
and receive data and if you are like
most internet users you are doing
several different things online at the
same time TCP IP makes this possible
because TCP IP allows multiple processes
to happen simultaneously it's called
multiplexing and means that different
devices can send and receive data at the
same time over the same connection it
can also handle different data types
such as emails websites and videos TCP
IP work with small networks like Sam's
network but also enables communication
across many different sizes of networks
including the internet in this video you
learned about TCP IP the primary
communication protocol framework of all
modern networks and the internet you now
know the different devices on Sam's
Network need TCP IP to communicate
successfully and you also learned about
TCP IP's different layers and their
functions well done when traveling you
always have the end destination in mind
and the same applies to data and
networking think of airports in
different countries where each airport
represents an IP address the location
where your data needs to travel as you
may recall IP addresses are vital in
identifying different devices on a
network to Route traffic to the intended
destination but it's not just IP
addresses that play a vital role in
getting data packets to where they need
to be like airports IP addresses have
different terminals or gates for
specific purposes these gates are known
as ports and they allow various types of
data to be sent and received by specific
applications much like a passport that
determines whether someone is allowed to
enter or leave a
country understanding how ports work is
important because it allows you to
control which types of data can enter
and leave your network as well as
protect against unauthorized access over
the next few minutes you'll explore port
numbers and how they are used by devices
on a network to identify data you will
also learn how ports are positioned
within the OSI and TCP IP Suite to begin
let's apply the airport analogy to
networking suppose you're going on a
trip to a foreign country the airport
you depart from represents your device's
Source IP address and the airport you
arrive at indicates the destination IP
address Before you depart you need to
provide your passport at the terminal to
confirm your identity and to receive
your boarding pass then you're
authorized to board the plane in this
case you can think of the plane as the
router on the network that helps your
data get to its destination when you
arrive at the destination you must go
through customs and provide your
passport to identify yourself again
similarly when data travels on a network
it needs to go through certain ports to
access specific protocols just like your
passport verifies your identity and
allows you to enter a country ports
identify and allow certain types of data
to access the network think of ports as
a type of digital passport for data
traveling between source and destination
IP addresses for instance when you
access a website your computer sends a
request to the web server using a
specific port number the web server
receives the request and responds by
sending the requested web page back to
your computer but how does this work the
process is similar to the concept of
passport verification where a passport
is scanned when leaving and entering a
country someone who tries to enter a
country without a valid passport would
be denied entry similarly if data tries
to enter a network without the proper
port number the network security
measures like firewalls May block its
entry to protect against unauthorized
access now that you understand how ports
work let's examine the range of port
numbers and how they are assigned port
numbers are used to identify different
types of data during transmission and
are assigned within the transport layer
of both the TCP IP suite and the OSI
model this range of numbers goes from 0
to
65,535 both the transmission control
protocol or TCP and user datagram
protocol or UDP use port numbers to
identify themselves the application
layer of both models identifies the
specific protocol required by the
application and then the transport layer
assigns a port number to that protocol
using a specific number to identify it
these port numbers are used to to
identify protocols but also to keep
track of data as it moves around devices
on the network firewalls use port
numbers all the time to permit and deny
access to a
network understanding how port numbers
are used in network security is crucial
firewalls rely on port numbers to permit
or deny access to a network but managing
the range of port numbers is equally
important to prevent unauthorized access
when managing the range of port numbers
it's important to keep in mind that many
ports are blocked by default to prevent
unauthorized access but sometimes you
may need to use a specific protocol and
in those cases you can open the
corresponding port number to allow
traffic to flow through this is usually
done on the Network's firewall and the
local firewall on your computer it's
worth noting that when you add a new
application to your device it may
automatically open the necessary ports
for the protocols it requires in
conclusion ports are like the gates at
an airport controlling what data can
pass through and where it's going by
managing and securing the range of port
numbers you can keep unwanted access out
of your
network with the knowledge you've gained
from this video you can describe how
port numbers work what range they fall
under and how to keep them
secure by doing so you're helping to
control the flow of data in and out of
your network protecting it against
unauthorized access keep this in mind as
you continue to explore the world of
networking you now know that port
numbers can be used to identify
protocols and the protocol set rules for
how network devices communicate but have
you ever wondered how your computer
distinguishes between the hundreds or
even thousands of conversations
happening simultaneously on a network or
have you considered how different
protocols work together to keep all
these conversations organized and secure
over the next few minutes you will will
explore how protocols and port numbers
work together to distinguish between the
many conversations happening on one
device by the end of this video you will
have a better understanding of how
protocols and port numbers work together
to ensure that data is transmitted
securely and efficiently across the
network there are many conversations
happening on your computer and network
at any given time this amplifies into
hundreds if not thousands of
conversations happening
simultaneously to ensure that these
conversations are successful they must
follow a set of rules or protocols that
dictate how network devices communicate
these Protocols are essential for
organizing and securing the flow of data
especially sensitive information let's
now explore how protocols and port
numbers work together to ensure that
conversations can take place securely
and efficiently starting with email
protocols electronic mail or email has
been used for exchanging messages
messages between businesses and
individuals worldwide for many years
there are many different email
applications available today from
cloud-based options like Microsoft
Exchange online to un premis Solutions
like Microsoft Exchange Server various
email protocols have been used over the
years to deliver email globally
including POP3 and iMap for receiving
email and SMTP for sending it let's
explore an example of how email moves
between two us users using the simple
mail transfer protocol or SMTP the
diagram illustrates the communication
between the sender recipient and email
servers but it doesn't display the port
numbers used in the process to gain a
better understanding of the involvement
of ports let's focus on the sender and
examine how they communicate with a
server the sender selects a source and
destination IP address and identifies
the protocol they want to use which is
SMTP SMTP uses port number 25 for its
communication the destination Port is
always the service or protocol being
accessed once the protocol is chosen the
devices involved have a set of rules to
follow to ensure the conversation is
successful for SMTP this includes
multiple message exchanges such as H to
create the SMTP connection between the
client and server mail from to provide
information about who is sending the
email receip to for reporting the
email's recipient data to prepare and
initiate the transfer of information
between the client and the server reset
to reset the connection and clear all
earlier transfer data without closing
the SMTP connection and quit to end the
connection one problem with using port
number 25 is that it can be intercepted
by someone listening in on the
conversation this is because Port 25 is
known as the port for emails making it
more susceptible to attacks as a
workaround port number 587 can be used
instead which allows data to be
encrypted offering better protection and
reducing the risk now let's move on to
review the source port number from the
example the sender utilizes port number
5000 as its source this number does not
indicate a specific protocol rather it
serves as a session ident identifier for
the computer to receive responses from
the email server by using a separate
port number for each session multiple
sessions can be opened simultaneously on
the computer to further illustrate this
point let's say you open three different
web pages on your computer one for
shopping one for social media and one
for online banking it would not be
feasible for all three websites to use
port 80 to communicate with your
computer as they are distinct sites
therefore your computer assigns a
different port number to each website
allowing incoming traffic to be
identified and displayed on the
appropriate browser tab in this video
you explored the important role that
protocols and port numbers play in
establishing effective communication
processes and safeguarding the delivery
of information throughout this
discussion you have learned that
Protocols are responsible for setting
the rules and guidelines for how devices
communicate and transmit data and that
some protocols even provide added
security by encrypting data during
transmission you now also know that port
numbers are the key to identifying and
managing multiple conversations
happening simultaneously allowing
different protocols and services to
function efficiently without
interference armed with this knowledge
aspiring Network professionals such as
yourself can confidently ensure that
data is transmitted securely and
efficiently across the
network today more than a billion
websites exist and we use them daily to
access information and services Sam's
business is no different and with a
newly installed internet connection
employees have been asked to complete
Food hygiene training on a website to
access the site they type in the name of
the website easy right but you've
learned that websites are stored on
servers and servers have IP addresses so
how is it possible for employees to
access the website without the IP
address of the server that's where DNS
or domain name system comes in and in
this video you will be introduced to the
concept what it is used for and how it
makes finding websites on the internet
easier you know that IP addresses are
used to identify and locate devices on a
network and that a website is a location
somewhere out on the internet but IP
addresses are long and complicated to
remember imagine you had to navigate the
internet using IP addresses think about
all the websites you visit daily and how
much harder it would be if you could
only find them by using an ipv4 or IPv6
address it's great that you can use
website names to find what you need on
the internet but that's not how devices
like servers that host these websites
work they only understand how to
communicate using IP as the standard
something has got to sit between the
easyto read name and the IP address and
that's the job of the domain name system
the domain name system is a service that
translates a human readable domain name
or URL into the IP address of the server
that's hosting the site or service when
you type a website address into your
browser like
www.sams.com an automatic search is
instigated on a DNS server this is known
as a DNS lookup the DNS server acts as a
translator taking the name you typed and
converting it to an IP address that can
be located for the relevant website the
IP address is stored in the DNS server
as a record and there are a number of
record types the DNS server will use an
address record or a record when simply
looking for a website name translation
another type of record is a domain name
system service record or SRV which can
tell a device what services are
available for a particular website for
example a website that needs video
conferencing capabilities requires the
use of a video communication protocol
like session initiation protocol or sip
DNS uses port number 53 and can send
requests reliably using TCP or
unreliably using UDP DNS needs to be
fast so UDP is the preferred protocol
because it doesn't provide packet
delivery check overheads many DNS
servers worldwide provide this lookup
service because there are so many
incoming requests from everyone surfing
the web if there were only one DNS
server you would have to wait a really
long time for the translation to take
place before you can get to the website
you want to access anyone can create DNS
servers but there are so many in
existence that you don't have to go
through the setup yourself to access
websites internet service providers or
isps typically provide a DNS server for
their customers and companies like
Microsoft own many such servers
worldwide
in summary DNS or domain name system is
an essential part of the modern internet
that translates userfriendly domains
into numerical IP addresses to Route
internet traffic to the appropriate
destination to do this it needs to be
fast and responsive therefore it uses
the UDP protocol so you don't even
notice the translation from the website
name to IP address unfortunately DNS is
susceptible to attacks but you'll learn
more about that soon
previously you learned that Network
traffic could be monitored to identify
threats and make sure that no process or
application takes up too many resources
and bandwidth this is a great way to
ensure that the network supports the
business in the best way possible but
it's not very proactive after all you're
just monitoring the traffic as it's
already moving across the network as
data is being collected how can you use
it although she hasn't implemented any
network traffic monitoring yet Sam is
wondering what the benefits of traffic
monitoring could be and if it's
something the business should pursue as
it expands in this video you will learn
how analyzing collected data can help
you determine a Network's Health with
metrics and Implement some proactive
actions on the network using analysis
health and Metric analysis are about
spotting Trends and patterns in data
collected from Network traffic
monitoring the identified Trends and
patterns can then be used to proactively
introduce traffic management methods to
keep the network healthy and traffic
management methods can ensure that the
capacities on network devices are
maximized without overloading them
thereby increasing the return on
investment or Roi metric analysis
involves measuring key performance
statistics to understand how something
is performing and predict its future
Performance Based on the gathered data
tools used for this prediction generally
need at least 30 days worth of data to
create a BAS Baseline performance for a
network there are several different
metrics that can help determine Network
Health and performance let's examine
some of them first is bandwidth usage
this metric is about checking that you
are not going over the amount of
available bandwidth if the bandwidth
usage is too high it can affect the
Network's performance by slowing things
down the second metric is packet loss
when packets get lost on the network
between the source and destination you
know that TCP can resend those lost
packets but that can actually create
more congestion on the network if it
occurs too often the third is latency
this is how long a packet takes to move
across the network and back again it's
also known as the roundtrip time or
rtt last is Network availability this is
a key metric because it reflects uptime
on the network in other words it tells
you when the network is working and when
it is not these metrics and others can
tell you how healthy your network is and
how well it's
performing next let's discuss traffic
management a network can be set up to
manage its performance by utilizing
something called quality of service or
qos qos is a suite of different traffic
management mechanisms that can be used
at different times based on network
performance although traffic monitoring
is ongoing traffic management mechanisms
should only be turned on when needed if
everything works as it should you don't
need to create extra work two of the
mechanisms included in qos are traffic
marking and
prioritization traffic marking allows
you to Mark packets with for example
different colors to indicate priority
for example real time information like
video calls should be prioritized less
critical traffic like email can be given
a low priority in conclusion collecting
data is an essential First Step but it
needs to be followed by health and
Metric analysis to make predictions the
more data is collected the more reliable
the predictions will be Sam Scoops
should start collecting data to measure
its Network Health as soon as possible
before performance events like lagging
distorted video calls or video buffering
happen due to the lack of bandwidth some
traffic management mechanisms will have
to be configured to prioritize the most
important traffic to get the best
performance and usage out of the current
network devices ultimately this will
save the business money and get a better
Roi on the equipment
used you've made it to the end of the
second week of this course aren't you
proud of yourself you should be after
all you've learned a lot about network
devices and their infrastructure The OSI
model protocols and ports and network
monitoring that's quite a lot of new
knowledge to take in and you still have
to complete the module quiz so let's
review what you have learned this week
first you learned about hybrid
networking when a network or combination
of networks uses different connective
Technologies to link devices for example
a home network with both wired and
wireless connections hybrid networks are
great but when a business has multiple
sites several networks have to be linked
together via the Internet the network of
networks which is what you learned about
next it's not only individual businesses
that connect to different sites via the
Internet the whole world world is
connected through the internet so there
are many interconnected networks and the
connections between these are
facilitated by internet service
providers or
isps next you were introduced to cloud
computing which can extend local storage
and computing power through data centers
that act like giant computers with vast
storage and a lot of CPUs and RAM you
learned that there are four types of
clouds public private hybrid and
multicloud
expanding on your new knowledge of the
cloud you also learned about the
infrastructure that makes both private
and public cloud services possible and
don't forget you also learned about vpns
and how they can securely connect
different networks but what about
connected devices that don't need direct
input from
humans yes you guessed it it's the
internet of things or iot which you also
learned about now let's move on to
lesson two you started this lesson by
learning about the OSI model its seven
layers and its purpose the way the model
separates the communication process into
smaller parts or layers makes it easier
to understand and troubleshoot specific
aspects of data transmission after this
you learned about layered architecture
of which The OSI model is an example
this concept is all about the separation
of concerns it breaks down complex
networking processes into more
manageable layers
that enable it professionals to change
protocols and processes within each
layer without affecting the others you
also learned about the TCP IP Suite
which has four layers it plays a vital
role in data transmission since it is
the primary protocol used all over the
world by millions of devices to send
information online on different kinds of
networks in this lesson's exercise you
applied what you learned by
demonstrating how to expand a network to
support new users and wireless devices
and identify protocols that can be used
within that Network in lesson three you
learned about ports that control which
types of data can enter and leave a
network as well as protect against
unauthorized access you learned that
port numbers are almost like digital
passports for data traveling between
source and destination IP addresses if
data attempts to enter a network without
the proper port number the network
security measures like a fire wall May
block its entry to protect against
unauthorized access next you explored
more protocols involved with data
transmission Network protocols provide a
common language that enables different
devices to talk to each other and share
information you also learned that proper
Network protocols have to be implemented
to protect a network from cyber threats
at this point you have learned about
both ports and protocols but don't
forget that they work together to
securely and efficiently trans transmit
data across a network some protocols set
rules for how devices communicate and
transmit data While others support data
encryption and port numbers separate and
identify multiple ongoing conversations
between devices you also learned that
port numbers can be divided into three
ranges and that various Protocols are
associated with each port number as part
of this lesson you also completed an
exercise in which you learned how to
identify the sessions that are currently
in use on a computer finally you
completed a lesson about network
monitoring this started off with
learning about how DNS enables users to
access websites using userfriendly
domain names instead of numerical IP
addresses unfortunately because it's so
widely used DNS is very vulnerable to
attacks DNS relies on a structure of
four different DNS server types to deal
with hundreds of thousands of requests
every second from around the world so
there are many opportunities for
attackers after this you learned about
how Network traffic monitoring is used
to check what protocols and data are
moving around a network and monitor
performance and security threats Network
traffic monitoring helps businesses
quickly detect and respond to security
incidents prevent data breaches and
ensure that network resources are used
efficiently but monitoring is only half
of the equation the other half is
analyzing the data you collect and
proactively introducing traffic
management methods examining metrics
keeps the network healthy when problems
are spotted in Trends or patterns some
of the metrics used for analysis include
checking bandwidth packet loss latency
and network availability and you can use
the quality of service or qos Suite to
deploy traffic management
mechanisms lastly you learned about
Network logs and how they record
information from data points on a
network and you learned about filtering
and searching logs efficiently to find
relevant
information now that you've reviewed
this week's content you should be ready
to take the module quiz about network
devices if you aren't don't worry it's
easy enough to go back and revisit items
you feel unsure about work at your own
pace but even if you are ready for the
quiz first take a moment to appreciate
your efforts before you move on well
done Sam Scoops client base has grown
significantly and keeping track of
client information has become
challenging with different employees
adding client details on copies of a
spreadsheet there are now different
versions of the client's list on
everyone's devices and they are
experiencing the same problem with stock
taking and supplier related
Administration they urgently need a
central space where employees can access
the same files fortunately client server
networking can provide them with a
secure and efficient way to to
centralize their data and applications
in this video you will learn about the
details of a client server networking
model client server Network models are
common in the world of computer
networking today in this type of network
a client is a device or an application
that requests services or resources from
a server the server on the other hand is
a computer system or software that
provides those services or resources to
the client think of it this way a client
din at a restaurant and needs something
for instance a glass of water so they
call their waiter and make their request
the waiter then serves them a glass of
water in the same way when you use your
computer or mobile device to connect to
a website or an application you are the
client making a request for information
and the server provides you with that
information this type of networking
model is called a client server because
the client and the server communicate
with each other to exchange data and
services the server is the primary
provider of those services and the
client is the primary user this
architecture is commonly used in offices
businesses schools and other
organizations to allow various clients
to access the same files or applications
on the server the client server model
can be a great solution for the
versioning issues that Sam Scoops is
experiencing next let's discuss the
components of a client server Network by
exploring Network clients first in the
traditional sense a network client is a
lightweight computer or device that
cannot run programs on its own as
technology has advanced a client is more
than a simple terminal today it can now
represent any hardware or Software
System that interacts with services
offered by a server there are four types
of clients in a client server networking
model thick thin zero and hybrid let's
explore them in more detail a thick
client is the most common client type in
today's Network environments in fact
every desktop computer these days are a
thick client a thick client is sometimes
known as a workstation and can process
and store data locally without using a
server a thick client's interaction with
a server is minimal and might only be to
store data on a shared network drive
there is also a thin client and
historically this was a Terminal A Thin
Client cannot process or store data
locally and relies completely on the
server to provide computational power
and storage today thin clients are
represented by web-based applications or
browsers that request and display
information from servers regardless of
the device on which they are running
zero clients are ultra thin clients
basically running no software they are
usually small Hardware boxes used to
connect peripherals like a monitor
keyboard mouse and network cables to a
server this is done to provide virtual
desktop environments or vdi
since zero clients have no software
running on them or local storage they
have no security risks and lastly hybrid
clients combine the best of both thick
and thin clients a hybrid client can
perform limited local data processing
but has no local storage capabilities an
example of such a client is a device
that renders content and stores the
results on the server like automated
rating systems next let's explore
servers a server is a variable term for
a software system a hardware device or
both that provides services or resources
to other computers on a network in the
past servers were large mainframe
computers that were housed in big rooms
and were used by many clients today
servers can be much smaller but still
powerful they are typically made up of a
high-end computer with lots of memory
and processing power normally they are
connected to other devices like switches
routers load balancers and firewalls
servers usually run specialized software
such as Windows server or Linux to help
them provide the services needed by
other computers on the network a
server's main task is to provide
services and resources to its clients
the larger the number of applications
and users the more servers are required
to split the resources across them
servers are used for running
applications mailing file storage
printer sharing gaming web hosting media
streaming database hosting and many
other
purposes in this video you learned about
client server networking its components
and how it works to enable the efficient
sharing of resources and data between
multiple users and devices you also
learned about different types of clients
and servers used in modern client server
networking do you work from home or know
someone working from home today
thousands of people work from the
comfort of their own homes and it's all
thanks to the technology that allows
them to connect remotely to their
company's networks files and IT services
not only does this technology make
remote work possible but it also
simplifies how it teams fix problems in
the modern workplace with remote access
they can troubleshoot and fix employees
devices without ever having to leave
their desks but what are the other
benefits of remote access and what
technologies make it possible in this
video you will learn about remote access
and the Technologies that support it
remote access refers to the ability to
access a computer network or data from a
location other than the device or
network itself it allows individuals
with an internet connection to connect
to their work or home computers from
anywhere in the world this is especially
convenient for businesses and
individuals who need access to their
data from various locations because as
much as you try to prevent them
emergencies do happen imagine having an
emergency during a holiday trip and
needing medical documents saved on your
home computer or say during your trip
your manager urgently needs a file from
your computer no problem with remote
access you can say goodbye to the days
of being physically Tethered to your
desk or office whether you are working
from home traveling for business or
pleasure remote access enables you to
work and access your data from anywhere
in the world remote access has numerous
benefits for both individuals and
businesses as discussed earlier it is
especially useful for troubleshooting IT
issues but it also increases
productivity and enhances collaboration
among teams working from different
locations remote access can also reduce
travel costs associated with inperson
meetings all these benefits are great
but remote access also poses some cyber
security risks first remote access
software is a prime target when remote
access software is unsecured outdated or
unpatched it can allow unrestricted
network access to anyone on the internet
weak authentication like simple
passwords can allow cyber criminals to
take over user accounts this is a major
risk to the network because compromised
accounts connected via remote access
provide a foundation to access network
computers and resources like file
servers email servers and database
servers cyber security criminals can
also exploit remote users by sending
fake remote access links or malicious
attachments in fish in emails if a
remote user accesses these links or
attachments it could put the account
credentials of organizations and entire
network systems at risk and once
attackers gain access they can steal
data install malware or change data
knowing about these risks is important
but so is knowing about the tools and
technologies that make secure remote
access possible the tools and
Technologies used for remote access
depend on the type of network and
devices used let's explore some some of
the most used remote access tools
earlier you've learned that a virtual
private Network or VPN is a secure
method for creating a virtual network
over a public network such as the
internet it encrypts the connection
between the Remote device and the host
Network providing secure access to
resources on the network vpns are widely
used for remote access to corporate
networks because they provide an
improved level of security vpns use many
different protocols for authentication
data encryption and tunneling tunneling
is a process by which VPN software
connects to the destination and sends
data some of the protocols vpns use
include IPC SSL or TLS pptp
l2tp and openvpn and others another
important protocol is the remote desktop
protocol or RDP this Microsoft protocol
allows users to connect to a remote
computer computer and access its desktop
and applications RDP is built into the
Windows operating systems and is
commonly used for remote access to
individual computers or servers but what
if you need to connect over an unsecured
Network like free public Wi-Fi well in
unsecured networks it technicians use
the secure shell or SSH which you've
learned about earlier remember SSH
provides encrypted communication between
the client and server Protec in
sensitive data from interception SSH is
commonly used for remote administration
of servers routers and other network
devices there are also remote access
services or RAS a Microsoft Technology
that allows dialing into a network from
a remote location it allows remote users
to establish a secure connection to the
network over a phone line or the
internet Ras is a predecessor of routing
and remote access service or
Ras this built-in Windows operating
system tool enables remote access and
routing Services it can be used to
create a VPN server as well as Diop and
wireless networking connections our Ras
also supports several authentication
methods in this video you learned about
remote access and the technologies that
make it possible many cyber security
roles involve remote access to Monitor
and maintain computer networks for
instance you might have to deploy
security updates quickly to remote
computers without being physically
present you will most likely use this
knowledge covered in this video in your
career going
forward in today's world authentication
has become a huge part of Modern Life
whether it's gaining access to Everyday
devices like mobile phones or laptops or
accessing services like banking it now
plays an important role in maintaining
your online security Sam's business is
continuing to grow employees are logging
in Daily using passwords to access
important business information while
they have implemented a fingerprint
device for physical security some team
members are concerned about the security
of their computer passwords they have
raised the valid concern of whether
using plain text passwords is enough to
protect the company sensitive data over
the next few minutes you'll explore the
world of authentication protocols and
discover the various methods that are
used in modern Computing for both
personal and professional use let's
begin with passwords when it comes to
securing digital assets traditionally
password-based authentication has been
the standard approach but in recent
years passwordless authentication has
gained popularity but what exactly is
passwordless
authentication this method of
authentication allows users to access
their devices or applications without
the need to enter a password instead it
uses biometric devices to authenticate
users such as fingerprint scanners
facial recognition technology or even
Iris scans biometric devices provide a
convenient and secure way for users to
access their Digital Services without
the need for complex passwords which are
sometimes difficult to remember and can
potentially be compromised in fact
passwordless authentication is
integrated into most mobile devices and
laptops today and even small businesses
now incorporate biometric authentication
systems this not only improves security
but also provides a more seamless and
efficient user experience however you
should note that while passwordless
authentication systems are more secure
than traditional password-based systems
your devices will not be completely safe
from hacking attempts for maximum
security it's essential to follow a zero
trust policy which means you should
trust no one when it comes to security
and always Implement best practices to
remain Vigilant and safe one way to
improve the security of passwordless
authentic iation is by incorporating a
two- Factor authentication system
firstly a single Factor authentication
system means you only require one form
of identification such as a username and
password this method is widely used but
it can be vulnerable to password theft
fishing attacks and other social
engineering techniques if a hacker gets
hold of a user's password they can
easily access their account and
potentially steal sensitive information
however with two Factor Authentication
or 2fa you can add an extra layer of
protection to online accounts 2fa
requires you to provide two different
types of information or credentials to
verify your identity this makes it
harder to gain unauthorized access to
your accounts typically the first factor
is something you know like your password
then the second factor is something you
have like your cell phone so when you
enable TFA for an account you'll first
enter your password when logging in then
you'll be prompted to enter a code
that's sent to your phone which is also
called a one-time password
OTP businesses can use specialized apps
called authenticators to generate these
codes on their personal phones or
devices this ensures that even if
someone knows your password they still
can't access your account without the
second Factor some of the popular
authenticator apps used to generate
codes for two-factor authentication are
Google Authenticator Microsoft auth
authenticator and aie another type of
two-factor authentication makes use of
security Keys which are physical devices
used to authenticate users this security
key is a small USB like device that you
insert into a USB port or you can use it
wirelessly with Bluetooth or near field
communication otherwise known as
NFC when you log in you are prompted to
insert the security key and press a
button to verify your identity the key
will then generate a onetime code that
that is sent to the system which
verifies its authenticity this is also
called Universal second factor or u2f
authentication Standard Security keys
are considered highly secure because
they are not vulnerable to fishing
attacks where attackers try to trick
users into disclosing their usernames or
passwords they are also more secure than
other forms of two-factor authentication
because they cannot be intercepted or
stolen through malware or other online
attacks Pho is one of the most popular
vendors of u2f security Keys now let's
review some of the authentication
protocols that organizations use such as
ldap which stands for lightweight
directory access protocol ldap is a
protocol used to access and manage
centralized user authentication and
authorization Azure active directory is
a very popular service that uses ldap or
radius which stands for remote
authentication dial-in user service
radius is a client server protocol that
provides centralized authentication
authorization and accounting management
for users who connect and use a network
service it is often used for remote
access to networks another protocol is
called certificate-based authentication
which is an authentication method that
uses digital certificates to verify the
identity of a user device or
application and lastly keros is a
network Authentication Protocol that
provides Mutual authentic ation between
a client and a server in a network
environment it protects businesses
against password sniffing attacks by
encrypting authentication credentials it
is commonly used in Windows domains well
done in this video you explored
authentication and gained knowledge
about the fundamental concepts of
authentication you also discovered the
various types of authentication
mechanisms that are widely used in
everyday life you even explored the
concept of two- Factor authentication
which adds an addition layer of security
to the authentication process as you
have learned authentication plays an
essential role in keeping your data and
your devices secure so it's important to
stay vigilant and keep up toate on all
the latest trends in the authentication
world so far you've explored how
organizations use authentication and
modern Computing as a way to allow their
employees to access business information
but what if only certain employees
should be able to access sensitive parts
of the information how would you
approach this right now Sam is happy
with how employees are authenticated
when accessing their Network however
they recently purchased accounting
software to track the daily Financial
transactions of the company but the
vendor that set up the accounting
software only provided one set of
credentials by which all employees could
access the software Sam is concerned
about the security threats this poses
for instance the counter attendance
should not be able to view the banking
information of supply buyers and clients
Sam wonders if there is a way to assign
specific access rights to employees
based on their responsibilities to limit
access to sensitive information well the
solution to this is a proper
authorization authentication and access
control setup in this video you'll
explore how access control is tied to
authentication and authorization Access
Control basically determines what
resources an authenticated and
authorized user can make use of let's
explore
what it is and how it works in modern
Computing discover the different tiers
of access and how authorization is
granted and monitored so what is it
authentication is responsible for
granting or denying access to the system
while authorization determines what data
or resources will be available it does
this by analyzing a user's identity role
or their permissions by doing this
authentication ensures that only
authentic ated individuals or entities
can access an area where there's
sensitive information then authorization
decides what specific information can be
viewed let's take this analogy think of
a time you stayed in a hotel as part of
the check-in process you were provided
with a physical card your check-in was
the authentication you are who you say
you are which then allowed the hotel to
issue your room card providing you with
authorization to enter your room however
if you think about the cleaners who are
employed by the hotel they would have an
ID that authenticates them to be on the
premises just like your check-in process
they also have physical cards but that
card authorizes them to access all the
rooms in the Hotel this is Access
Control through the use of
authentication and
authorization this approach is taken by
organizations all over the world while
you may have valid authentication to
access the organization's database that
may not give you the authorization to
view or modify certain sensitive data
for example an employee who works in
Human Resources may have access to
employee records but may need to be
authorized to view the salary details of
all employees if authorization is not
controlled the human resources employee
may be able to access sensitive data
that they should not be able to view
great now you have a good understanding
of authentication and authorization
let's explore some of the different
tiers tiers refer to the different
levels of access that can be granted to
individuals or entities depending on
their role responsibilities and levels
of trust some common tiers of
authorization can include guest access
which is the lowest tier of
authorization and typically provides
limited access to resources or Services
user access is usually next and is
granted to registered users who have
authenticated themselves to the system
user access typically provides more
privileges than guest access allowing
users to create edit and view their own
data next is administrator access this
tier is granted to individuals who have
a higher level of responsibility and
control over the system for example it
departments they can typically create
edit and delete users as well as
configure system settings and manage
resources with super user access
individuals are given complete control
over the system including access to all
resources and the ability to modify any
aspect of the system
super users are typically responsible
for maintaining and securing the system
however role-based access is more at an
individual level and is based on the
roles and responsibilities of the
individuals within an
organization access is granted based on
the user's role such as a manager
employee or contractor role-based access
ensures that individuals only have
access to the resources and services
they need to perform their job functions
and finally you have conditional access
this tier of authorization is based on
the context of the access request such
as the location device time or network
conditional access provides an
additional layer of security by ensuring
that access is granted only under
specific conditions but how is this
authorization granted and how do
organizations monitor it they do this
through a combination of authentication
Access Control and auditing mechanisms
firstly authentication is provided when
users have verified their identities
once this step is complete Access
Control determines what actions a user
is allowed to perform this step involves
various models like rbac ABAC DAC Mac
and others to enforce Access Control
finally user activities are audited this
involves monitoring and recording all
user activity and events in order to
detect any unusual or unauthorized
access
attempts well done in this video you
discovered what authentication and
authorization is you also explored the
various tiers of authorization and
examined how authorization is granted in
modern business organizations
continuously need to Monitor and update
their authorization policies this
ensures that users can access the
resources they need whilst also
preventing unauthorized access by having
proper auditing and logging mechanisms
in place organizations can not only
track access but also identify any
potential security breaches these
authorization policies not only protect
your data but can also significantly
increase the cyber security of an
organization meet emry emry is a
self-proclaimed tax-savvy individual he
knows how to make a mean cup of coffee
fix network issues and even program his
smart appliances but what emry doesn't
know is how to keep his personal
information safe from cyber criminals in
the wild wild web one day emry receives
an email from his bank the email looks
completely legitimate with the right
colors logos and fonts the email asks
him to click on the link and provide his
banking username and password to view a
suspicious transaction on his account
being the trusting individual he is
Emory clicks on the link answers his
information and Bam Em's information is
at risk his bank account information is
now in the hands of a scammer who is
free to empty his bank account by
providing his login details Emory
unwittingly provided authentication to
the scammer giving them access to his
bank account authentication is the
process of verifying your identity just
like security at a concert or conference
checks your ID or pass to make sure it's
legitimate before letting you in in the
digital world you authenticate Yourself
by providing your username and password
and only then you are granted access
however being authenticated doesn't
automatically mean you have access to
everything that's where authorization
comes in authorization is like a
backstage pass it grants you access to
certain areas or information based on
your level of permission without
authorization even if you are
authenticated you won't be able to
access sensitive information just like
security checked your identity they will
check your backstage pass to ensure you
are authorized to access the area
luckily Emory's Bank uses a two-step
process to authorize transactions before
any money could be transferred out of
the bank an authorization request was
sent to his phone alerting him to a
possible breach Emory immediately
realized he has been hacked and
contacted the bank to report the
incident this scenario highlights the
importance of both authentication and
authorization in securing personal
information while authentication
verifies your identity authorization
determines what actions or data you are
allowed to access in emy's case his
password leak bypassed the
authentication process but the bank's
authorization process prevented any
money from being transferred out of the
account without his approval when it
comes to cyber security authentication
and authorization are your best friends
they're like the superheroes of the
digital world protecting your valuable
information from cyber criminals have
you ever tried to book tickets or
complete a purchase online and suddenly
the website went down then perhaps the
following event might sound familiar one
morning as Sam was putting in a long
list of orders on one supplier's website
the entire site crashed she then tried
to contact them via a conference call
but could not get through and later she
sent an email but it bounced back their
entire system was down later Sam finds
out that the supplier was hit hit by a
massive dos attack Sam has no idea what
dos or distributed denial of service
attack means but realizes that cyber
attacks can cause a major disruption in
business operations dos is one of many
kinds of cyber security attacks and it
involves multiple sources simultaneously
flooding a network with traffic making
it impossible to operate Network attacks
like these happen every day all over the
world but the method and effects can
differ drastically if a network is
vulnerable due to lack of proper
security measures attackers can be
successful in this video you will learn
about common types of network attacks
let's first classify what a network
attack is a network attack is mostly an
attempt to gain unauthorized access to a
computer network system or device with
the intent of stealing damaging or
manipulating data these attacks can come
from external sources such as as hackers
or viruses or from internal sources such
as employees or contractors Network
attacks can cause significant harm to
businesses organizations and individuals
and they can broadly be classified into
two categories passive attacks and
active attacks in passive attacks an
attacker simply observes or EES drops on
network traffic without modifying it
passive attacks can be challenging to
detect as they do not typically disrupt
network activity
in contrast active attacks involve an
attacker taking an action that affects
the network traffic active attacks are
usually easier to detect than passive
attacks because they typically involve
some level of disruption to network
operations such as modifying or stealing
data let's explore some of the most
common Network attacks hold on to your
seat this is going to get
interesting first is EES dropping which
involves intercepting and reading data
data transmitted over a network this can
include sensitive information such as
passwords credit card numbers and other
personal data eavesdropping involves
various tools and could be an automatic
or manual process these tools are used
for intercepting capturing and analyzing
Network traffic this process is called
packet sniffing the impact of VES
dropping can be severe as it can lead to
data exposure and information theft
don't don't confuse packet sniffing with
packet spoofing which is another type of
attack packet spoofing is when an
attacker sends packets of data with a
forged Source address to make it appear
that the packets are coming from a
trusted Source the purpose of packet
spoofing is often to trick the recipient
into accepting the packets as legitimate
and allowing the attacker to gain
unauthorized access to the recipient's
network or systems another type of
network attack is IP spoofing and it
involves forging The Source IP address
of a network packet to make it appear as
though it came from a trusted Source
this can be used to gain unauthorized
access to a network or to steal data to
prevent spoofing it is essential to
implement Network filters to prevent
spoofed packets from entering the
network on the other hand a
man-in-the-middle attack involves
intercepting communication between two
parties and relaying messages between
them this gives the appearance of normal
communication while secretly if dropping
and potentially modifying the messages
this can lead to information theft data
exposure and unauthorized access next
let's revisit the distributed denial of
service or dods attack mentioned at the
start of this video like discussed a
dods attack involves overwhelming or
flooding a network with a lot of traffic
or requests a denial of service or dos
attack is similar but it originates from
a single Source while a Dos attack is
launched from multiple sources making it
more challenging to
mitigate these attacks can lead to
network downtime and service
disruption another malicious attack type
is backdoors and just like the name
suggests it involves creating a hidden
entry point into a network or system
that bypasses standard security measures
back doors can be used to gain
unauthorized access steal data or
install malware a better known attack
type is password cracking which involves
attempting to guess or crack a user's
password to gain access to their account
this can affect not only users but also
servers Wi-Fi routers or any network
resource that is protected with a
password lastly there is SQL injection
SQL or structured query language is a
language used to access and alter
database tables and records and S SQL
injection is one of the most common
attacks against web applications it
causes significant damage to
organizations and businesses that use
databases to store sensitive data with
SQL injection attackers can exploit
vulnerabilities in SQL statements to
access sensitive information such as
usernames and passwords and use this
information for further attacks in this
video you gained insight into various
types of network attacks this knowledge
adds a vital part to your foundational
knowledge about networking later you
will learn how to implement appropriate
security measures to safeguard networks
from unauthorized access and malicious
activity at this point you should be
well aware of the methods and tools that
cyber attackers use but fortunately
Network administrators and Security
Experts have a few tools up their sleeps
themselves remember the Dos attack on
one of Sam's suppliers Network in
response to the incident the supplier
hired a specialist to implement robust
security measures and monitor network
activity to help prevent future cyber
threats Sam should probably take these
security measures for her business too
right but what would that entail in this
video you will learn about network
security and the tools Network
administrators can use to ensure the
security of a system effective network
security is built upon Three core
principles confidentiality
integrity and availability
confidentiality ensures that only
authorized individuals have access to
sensitive information Integrity
guarantees that your data remains
accurate and unaltered and availability
ensures that your digital resources are
accessible to authorized users whenever
needed without proper network security
measures in place a network and its data
are vulnerable to a variety of threats
these threats can include hackers
viruses malare W and other malicious
software that can cause significant
damage to the network and compromise
sensitive information that's why network
security is essential for protecting
data and a business's reputation to do
this network administrators and security
Specialists need the correct tools and
Technologies to keep a network safe and
secure let's explore some of these
network security tools starting with
firewalls firewalls are the first line
of defense for all Networks and a
critical tool in the network security
toolbox by now you know firewalls
prevent suspicious traffic from coming
in or going out of the network but they
also stop Port scanning firewalls are
very effective in securing a network
because it prevents harmful content from
entering the network in the first place
another crucial tool is passwords which
is not just for protecting user accounts
but also to secure servers Wi-Fi
networks and other network devices you
might find it frustrating to create
passwords that have symbols numbers
capitals and so on but Having learned
about password cracking you should Now
understand why you're encouraged to do
so weak passwords can be cracked easily
so you need to follow the best practices
when setting up passwords network
administrators should also Implement
passwordless authentication and
multiactor authentication where possible
for an extra layer of security on plane
passwords an intrusion detection system
or IDs is another preventative tool it
continuously monitors networks for any
signs of suspicious activity or
potential threats an IDs analyzes
Network traffic patterns and Compares
them against known attack signatures in
this way IDs quickly identifies
potential intrusions and alerts Network
administrators enabling Swift action to
counter any threats network security
security greatly depends on endpoint
security that determines how safe secure
and clean the devices in the network are
so anti- malware tools also form a part
of the network security toolbox remember
malware is malicious software that
infects and compromises a network or
device cyber attackers spread it through
various vulnerabilities in a
network fortunately modern anti- malware
tools are smart enough to detect
attackers Footprints and unusual
activities in network endpoints like
computers and phones in general Network
administrators should perform regular
network maintenance tasks which can
protect against various types of attacks
Network administrators should regularly
update software perform vulnerability
assessments and monitor traffic and
system logs finally it's crucial to
educate the users in your network
because human error is often been
considered the main weak Link in a
network informed and well-educated users
can help to prevent many potential
Network attacks teaching users about
Network best practices is essential for
network security in this video you've
learned that when it comes to network
security relying on a single protective
measure is like keeping a toolbox with
only one tool in it and hoping you can
fix any problem with it to truly
Safeguard networks you need a
multi-layer defense strategy that uses a
variety of tools and techniques and by
watching this video you are now equipped
to identify what network administrators
can use to ensure the security of a
system as businesses become more reliant
on technology cyber threats have become
more sophisticated and frequent as
you've learned safeguarding a network
from these threats is critical for any
business connected to the internet but
waiting for an attack to happen isn't
the way to go that's where fire walls
come in handy they provide proactive
protection preventing Network outages
and costly data theft in this video you
will explore firewalls in detail and
learn how they can Safeguard devices and
networks from potential threats to begin
let's start by understanding what
firewalls are and how they work as you
may remember a firewall is a network
security device that sits between a
trusted and untrusted network such as
the internet for instance let's take Sam
Scoops as an example now that the
business is connected to the internet it
is exposed to all sorts of threats a
firewall can act as a protective barrier
preventing these threats from entering
the network you can compare it to a
country's border control in the same way
officials check people to ensure they
aren't carrying anything that isn't
allowed in and out of the country
firewalls analyze all incoming and
outgoing traffic based on this analysis
it grants or denies access to the
network according to predefined security
rules ideally the firewall allows all
legitimate traffic while denying
malicious traffic such as malware and
intrusion attempts but how does it
accomplish this important role by
default most firewalls deny all incoming
traffic and filter outgoing traffic
until an organization's security team
configures what traffic should be
allowed in and out the firewall checks
each data packet to determine if certain
conditions are met before it allows
traffic to pass through these conditions
could be a specified IP address a
network port a network protocol or a
combination of conditions now that you
understand the basics of how firewalls
work let's examine the different types
of firewalls available some firewalls
are Hardware based and are inside
devices built to act as firewalls
firewalls can also be virtualized to run
on a server other firewalls are software
programs that run on personal computers
or even inside routers in all cases a
firewall is a list of permit and deny
statements of what can and can't pass
through it thereby protecting a network
firewalls have to check every packet of
data that arrives against a list of
rules to decide if the packet is
permitted or denied this can be very
time consuming and counterproductive
slow the network down so when it comes
to a network and its firewall some
decisions need to be made one what
traffic needs to be checked and two
where does it need to be checked in
other words where is the best place to
put border controls in a network
security teams make these decisions by
assessing the risk that different
network devices or zones carry a zone is
made up of a single device or devices
with the same trust level these devices
can be physically remote from one
another on the network or they can be
close by but as long as they all share
the same trust level they're in the same
Zone the trust level is assigned on a
scale of 0 to 100 the higher the number
the higher the level of trust and the
firewall acts according to what zone
traffic is going to or coming from
here's an example of a network with
three zones private public and perimeter
with which are very typical for many
networks today a trusted or private Zone
has resources and devices that should
never be accessible to anyone outside of
an organization so a firewall would
block all incoming traffic examples
include printers workstations used by
internal users and internal servers
these are typically assigned the highest
trust value of 100 zones with a high
number require more protection than
others but it also also means that the
firewall won't check outgoing traffic as
rigorously as for other zones the
perimeter Zone also known as DMZ or
demilitarized zone is where resources
and services accessible from outside the
organization are available for example
you can use a perimeter Network to
provide access to an application a
partnering organization or a supplier
this zone is typically assigned to the
value of 50 so not all incoming traffic
will need to be checked but it's still
treated with a lot of caution a public
Zone contains everything outside the
organization this zone is part of the
internet or another Network and is not
under the organization's control it
carries the most risk so it has a trust
level of zero in other words everything
coming in needs to be checked dividing a
network up into these three different
zones help security teams to know which
part of the network requires the most
protection and where traffic should be
checked most rigorously quite important
information for configuring a firewall
wouldn't you say if you don't have a
firewall an attacker could use malware
to take advantage of your bandwidth to
use it for themselves or sensitive and
private information about employees and
clients could be stolen your entire
network could even be held for ransom
thus it's vital to place firewalls
between your network and any outside
connection Sam scoop's Network needs
firewall protection because it's
connected to the internet at the moment
the router on the network provides
enough protection but as the business
expands so will the amount of traffic
that needs to be checked and this can
slow the router and network down before
that happens a dedicated firewall will
need to be added to the network as
technology advances so do the technique
cyber criminals rely on however with a
well-configured firewall in your cyber
security toolbox you can Safeguard your
network from unauthorized
access firewalls are great at protecting
networks from incoming attacks from the
internet but sometimes they have to be
configured to allow certain kinds of
traffic into a network to make a
business function take a website for
example the firewall for Sam scoop's
website will have to allow website
traffic and traffic for services like
email through the network this means
means that parts of the network will be
vulnerable and that's where security
tools enter the picture Sam Scoops could
benefit from using tools like Microsoft
Sentinel and Microsoft Defender for
endpoint over the next few minutes
you'll learn about these two services in
particular network security is only as
good as its weakest Point firewalls are
great protection but attackers know this
so they try to find other weak
points this is where Microsoft get can
help with a complete range of tools to
cover all security aspects let's start
with Microsoft Sentinel with a huge
range of products from Microsoft 365
Defender to Microsoft for cloud apps
your endpoints identity applications
data infrastructure and network are all
protected previously in the course you
learned how important it is to collect
data to help detect Network threats or
problems Sentinel is Microsoft's tool
for collecting all that data in one
place giving a bird's eye view of a
business having all this information at
hand can help reduce the stress of
increasingly sophisticated attacks by
increasing the volume of alerts and
preventing long resolution time frames
having access to all the data and
interpreting it is called knowing a
network security posture which
determines the security status of the
environment Sentinel measures this by
collecting data at Cloud scale across
all users devices applications and
infrastructure both on premises and in
multiple clouds detecting previously
undetected threats using Microsoft's
analytics and unparalleled threat
intelligence investigating threats with
artificial intelligence and hunting for
suspicious activities at scale by
tapping into years of cyber security
experience at Microsoft and responding
to incidents rapidly with built-in
orchestration and automation of common
tasks Sentinel is great if you need
comprehensive cover but if you only have
a few vulnerable areas in your network
Microsoft Defender might be a better
choice as it focuses on critical areas
Defender products can be used as data
sources within Microsoft Sentinel to
provide better security analytics and
threat intelligence in this way Defender
can help Sentinel determine the security
posture of a network more
accurately if your business is just
starting out like Sam's you probably
need some endpoint protection for things
like PCS and printers so Microsoft
Defender for endpoint is a good choice
this product can help look after
existing endpoints and scans for new
endpoints as they are added to the
network thus giving some level of
protection straight away Defender for
endpoint has the following capabilities
threat and vulnerability management
provides realtime visibility and helps
identify ways to improve security
posture attack surface reduction
eliminates risky or unnecessary surface
areas and restricts dangerous code from
running Advanced protection uses machine
learning and deep analysis to protect
against fileb based malware endpoint
detection and response monitor behaviors
and attacker techniques to detect and
respond to Advanced attacks
artificial intelligence to automatically
investigate alerts and remediate complex
threats in minutes and Microsoft threat
experts bring deep knowledge and
proactive threat hunting to your
security operations center that is quite
the offering and Sam's Network would
definitely be well protected if they
were to use Microsoft Defender for
endpoint with the website up and running
Sam Scoops will need to add another
level of protection Beyond just a fire
wall to address
vulnerabilities luckily tools like
Microsoft Sentinel and Defender for
endpoint can address those
vulnerabilities and do even more for
network security using these tools means
that Sam Scoops can protect the network
measure the overall cyber security
Readiness of the network help reduce the
security burden and understand its
posture congratulations you've made it
to the end of another lesson you have
been working really hard haven't you and
this week you learned about client
server and server to server
communication different approaches to
authorization and authentication Network
attacks and mitigation and firewalls and
their common protocols you probably
remember most of this week's content but
it's always a good idea to revisit the
most important points let's review the
week to make sure you're prepared for
this week's quiz in the first lesson you
learned about client server net NW
working which provides businesses with a
secure and efficient way to centralize
their data and applications a client is
a device or application that requests
services or resources from a server you
learned about the four types of clients
thick thin zero and hybrid clients on
the other hand the server is a computer
system or software that provides
services or resources to the client and
you learned even more about servers like
their capability and how they're used in
modern Computing recall that there are
different types of servers file Web Mail
database application print media and
Game servers servers are vital to Modern
businesses because they help businesses
simplify their operations and improve
their efficiency for example servers can
facilitate collaboration by providing a
centralized location to store and share
files next you learned about remote
access which refers to the ability to
access a computer network or data from
elsewhere it allows individuals with an
internet connection to connect to their
work or home computers from anywhere and
it makes troubleshooting a lot easier
because technicians can remotely connect
to employees computers at home some
remote access tools are virtual private
networks or vpns and protocols such as
remote desktop protocol or RDP and
secure shell or SSH which is useful when
connecting to a network remotely via an
unsecured Network like free public Wi-Fi
after this you learned how the DHCP or
dynamic host configuration protocol
automatically assigns IP addresses and
other network configuration settings to
network devices an advantage of DHCP is
that it simplifies network configuration
but there are also some disadvantages
like a single point of failure because
DHCP relies on a single server the
second lesson of the week started with a
breakdown of various authentication
methods that can be used to ensure
approved access the simplest
authentication method is a password but
these days you also get passwordless
authentication that relies on
fingerprint scanners and facial
recognition technology and then there
are more Advanced methods like two-step
verification and security Keys Next you
learned about authorization methods and
protocols remember authentication and
authorization may sound similar but
they're different authentication
verifies the identity of a user while
authorization determines what resources
and services they're allowed to access
you learned about the different tiers of
authorization these levels of access can
be granted depending on the users role
responsibilities and level of trust you
also learned how authorization is done
in modern business organizations based
on different models like ABAC rbac Mac
and DAC after this you learned about
different types of networks and Wi-Fi
security the networks you learned about
include the internet intranet and
Extranet and you explored the benefits
of each you also learned the importance
of wi-fi security and protecting your
network from cyber attacks like for
example changing the default username
and password of your router delving
further into security you discovered the
protocols associated with vpns and
access control systems and the protocols
used to authorize users but no matter
what security measures you take Network
attacks still happen attacks can come
from external sources like hackers or
viruses or internal sources like
employees or contractors because it's so
important you learned about common
passive and active attacks that attempt
to gain unauthorized access to a network
to steal damage or manipulate data one
such example is spoofing where an
attacker impersonates a legitimate user
or device to combat attacks like these
Network administrators need tools and
methods to ensure the security of a
system tools at administrators disposal
include firewalls passwords endpoint
security network maintenance intrusion
detection systems and educating users to
truly Safeguard networks you need a
multi-layer defense strategy using
various tools and techniques and such a
strategy will depend on best practices
to avoid Network attacks one such best
practice is updating software regularly
to fix known
vulnerabilities then in the last part of
this lesson you learned all about
firewalls using a firewall is a
proactive way of protecting Network by
filtering or denying traffic a firewall
checks each data packet to determine if
certain conditions are met before it
allows traffic to pass through these
conditions could be a specified IP
address a network port a protocol or a
combination of conditions together these
conditions make up a firewall policy
firewalls are great at protecting
networks from incoming attacks from the
internet but sometimes they have to be
configured to allow certain kinds of
traffic into a network to make a
business function this means that parts
of the network will be vulnerable but
luckily there are tools like Microsoft
Sentinel and Microsoft Defender for
endpoint that can help with that while
firewalls are essential they aren't
foolproof failing to address the gaps in
a firewall's protection or not correctly
maintaining it compromises its
Effectiveness and can introduce
unnecessary threats Network
administrators need to be able to
identify threats they can do so using
penetration testing and continuous
monitoring it's also essential to
practice proper change control the
process that precedes making changes to
a firewall's protocol altogether
firewall threats can be minimized by
having good procedures and policies and
end user security education and that was
the end of week three there is a lot of
information to digest from this week so
don't hesitate if you need to take a
break before taking the module quiz you
only have to start the quiz when you
feel ready good
luck by now you know that networking and
network security are important
components of modern business operations
but have you considered how
organizations keep up with a changing
landscape as the world's dependence on
the internet and cloud computing grows
in this video you'll discover how
Microsoft Azure a cloud computing
platform can help organizations build
deploy and manage their applications and
services in the cloud to begin let's
first unpack what Azure is azure is a
scalable and flexible cloud computing
platform that provides a wide range of
services like Computing resources
storage networking and Security Services
think of it like a state-of-the-art
factory with all the latest tools and
equipment a business needs to run
efficiently just as a factory can adjust
its production capacity based on Market
demands a business can easily scale its
Computing resources up or down as needed
with Azure and just like a factory has
Safety and Security practices in place
to ensure its operations are secure
businesses can rely on azure's Advanced
security features and infrastructure to
protect its data and run its operations
effectively ultimately businesses like
Sam Scoops for example can use Azure to
run its applications databases and other
services in the cloud
providing the flexibility scalability
and cost Effectiveness the business
needs to grow Azure fulfills this
important role by offering hybrid Cloud
capabilities enabling organizations to
integrate and connect their on premise
infrastructure with the cloud this
integration allows modern-day businesses
to benefit from cloud computing while
maintaining control over their data and
applications and as mentioned earlier
Azure also enables organizations to
scale na their resources up or down as
needed this flexibility means that
organizations can easily add or remove
resources to match their application's
demands ensuring that their application
always runs smoothly this is all made
possible by azure's range of services
that include everything from virtual
machines to Security Services let's
explore some of these Azure Services one
of the first key components of the
platform is azure virtual machines a
cloud-based solution that enables
businesses like Sam Scoops to host their
applications databases and websites in a
secure scalable and cost-effective
manner these virtualized computer
instances can run any operating system
giving businesses the flexibility to
choose the software the best fits their
needs in addition virtual machines allow
businesses to take advantage of the
latest Hardware technology without the
hassle and expense of purchasing and
maintaining physical Hardware
this makes it possible for businesses to
scale their resources as they grow
without having to worry about the
complexity and costs of Hardware
installations Azure Network Services on
the other hand offer a secure and
reliable Network infrastructure for
businesses these Services include
virtual networks load balancers and
traffic managers with virtual networks
organizations can create isolated
Network environments to host their
applications and services securely load
balancers distribute application traffic
evenly across virtual machines while
traffic managers enable them to direct
traffic to the most suitable service
endpoint now that you've covered Azure
Network Services let's talk about
another key component of the platform
Azure storage Services Azure storage
services offer a range of storage
options including blob storage file
storage Q storage and table storage
these Storage Solutions provide a secure
pure and scalable option for businesses
to store their data in the cloud blob
storage is ideal for storing
unstructured data such as images videos
and documents file storage on the other
hand is suitable for storing structured
data such as databases Q storage is used
for data passing between different
components of an application while table
storage is a costeffective service that
reads and writes data from tables so far
you've learned about azure's virtual
machine Me Network and storage services
but what does the platform have to offer
in terms of protecting a business's
applications and data Azure Security
Services provide businesses with a range
of Security Options to protect their
data from external threats the Azure
security Center is a central dashboard
that gives businesses a comprehensive
view of their security status it helps
monitor all Azure resources and provides
recommendations to improve the security
posture additionally azure offers
Advanced threat protection a feature
that uses machine learning algorithms to
detect and prevent threats before they
harm the business in conclusion azures
cloud services provide all the necessary
tools businesses need to securely and
successfully build deploy and manage
their applications and services in the
cloud in this video you've learned that
with its range of services like virtual
machines Network infrastructure storage
and security as your can help businesses
like Sam Scoops focus on what they do
best while leaving the it infrastructure
and security concerns to Azure earlier
you explored how Azure Services can help
Sam achieve scalability reliability
security and cost Effectiveness for her
plans to modernize business operations
in the future but now let's discover how
Sam can leverage one specific Azure
service Azure bot service to streamline
the customer ordering process provide
excellent customer support increase
sales through targeted marketing and
gather valuable customer feedback Azure
bought service is a cloud-based service
that provides businesses with
intelligent conversational agents or
Bots that can interact with customers
through various channels including
websites mobile apps and social media
platforms with that in mind let's talk
about how Azure bot service can
streamline Sam scoop's ordering process
with the help of a chatbot customers can
place their orders through different
channels including the business's
website and social media platforms the
chatbot can then process and send the
order directly to Sam's Point of Sale
system eliminating the need for manual
data entry this reduces errors and
speeds up the ordering process leading
to improved customer satisfaction but
that's not all as your Bot service can
also provide customer support a chat bot
can answer frequently asked questions
about Sam Scoops like its operating
hours ice cream flavors and pricing plus
it can provide personalized
recommendations based on the customer's
preferences making the customer feel
valued increasing the likelihood that
the customer will return as a result the
customer support team can shift their
attention to more complex customer
inquiries while the chatbot handles
routine questions effectively reducing
their workload and there's even more
Azure bot service can also help Sam
increase sales through targeted
marketing by analyzing customer data
like their order history and preferences
the chatbot can make personalized
recommendations for menu items and
promotions for example if a customer
frequently orders chocolate ice cream
the chatbot can send them a promotion
for a new chocolate
flavor this can increase the likelihood
of the customer making a purchase and
also provides valuable insights into
customer preferences that can inform
future marketing
strategies last but not least Azure bot
service can facilitate customer feedback
for instance a chatbot can ask customers
for feedback after their purchase
allowing the business to gather valuable
insights into their customers
experiences this feedback can be used to
improve the business's operations and
also inform future marketing strategies
and by providing a platform for
customers to voice their opinions the
business can increase customer
satisfaction and loyalty y so there you
have it by leveraging Azure bot Services
Sam can streamline the ordering process
provide excellent customer support
increase sales through targeted
marketing and gather valuable customer
feedback all while reducing the workload
of the team improving overall business
efficiency and ultimately Azure can
assist Sam Scoops in achieving their
goals and expanding and growing the
business in the
future Sam Scoops is growing at at a
blistering Pace there's such a demand
for their ice cream that it makes sense
to establish an online presence not only
to connect with existing customers but
to also offer them the option of
ordering online as a result Sam will be
able to provide better service to her
existing customers and expand her
customer base but as a small business
Sam Scoops want to keep the cost low
while still ensuring the website can
handle continued growth in demand Sam
contacts an IT consultant company and
they suggest that the business should
use virtualization tools and
Technologies to host their website in
the cloud but exactly how does
virtualization work and how can it help
business organizations manage their
operations efficiently let's find out in
this video you will learn about the role
of virtualization in modern Computing
picture an office with two desks and two
chairs while the room can comfortably
accommodate one or two people there's a
lack of privacy when two individuals
share the space to address this issue
the manager installs a partition
effectively dividing the office into two
separate areas virtualization works on a
similar principle usually a server is
dedicated to one use but in modern
Computing a single physical server can
be partitioned into multiple virtual
machines each with its own operating
system and applications this allows for
better utilization of computing
resources as multiple virtual machines
can share the same physical Hardware
without interfering with one another
because of this organizations can save
money by reducing the need for
additional Hardware while also improving
efficiency and maximizing resource
allocation virtualization provides
greater flexibility and scalability
enabling businesses to quickly adjust
their Computing resources based on
changing needs it also enhances security
by isolating virtual machines from one
another minimizing the risk of threats
spreading across the system but how
exactly is virtualization done in a
virtualized environment a software
program called a hypervisor is installed
on a computer the hypervisor creates
virtual versions of the physical
resources such as virtual CPUs memory
and storage hypervisors are the core of
virtualization technology because they
provide the foundation for creating and
managing virtual machines or VMS the
computer where the hypervisor is running
is called a host machine virtual
machines or VMS on the other hand are
called guest machines each VM can have
its own operating system installed and
applications can be installed on each VM
just like on a physical
computer now that you understand the
benefits of virtualization and the role
of hypervisors let's examine the two
main types type one and type two type
one hypervisors also known as bare metal
hypervisors are installed directly on
the host machine's Hardware this enables
the hypervisor to efficiently create and
manage virtual machines without
requiring a separate operating system
type one hypervisors are often used in
data centers and Enterprise level
environments because they offer better
security and isolation than type 2
hypervisors examples of type 1
hypervisors include VMware esxi micro
roft hyperv and Citrix Zen server type
two hypervisors or hosted hypervisors on
the other hand run on top of a host
operating system these hypervisors are
typically used for desktop
virtualization testing environments and
personal use examples of type 2
hypervisors include Oracle virtual box
VMware Workstation and Parallels Desktop
using these tools you can EAS easily run
Windows inside Linux or Mac OS and vice
versa there is also a popular
virtualization tool called windows
subsystem for Linux or
WSL it uses hyperv architecture and so
users can quickly create a fully
virtualized Linux terminal environment
running inside windows and that's the
two kinds of hypervisors hypervisor type
one a bare metal one installed on a host
machine's hardware and H supervisor type
two running on top of a host operating
system in conclusion virtualization is a
logical choice for small businesses
because it can use one server for
multiple purposes optimizing the
resource the business uses and it's cost
effective flexible and scalable if Sam
decides to go the virtualization route a
type one hypervisor would probably be
the best choice because it offers good
security and isolation virtualization is
definitely a good option for fast
growing small
businesses meet Alex Alex and her friend
Logan are huge fans of the Halo video
game series they have played all the
modern versions of the game but they've
always wanted to do a complete
playthrough of all the games in the
series so they decided to do a retro
gaming night to experience the good old
days of Halo 2 Alex and Logan want an
authentic experience of playing the game
exactly like it was when it was first
released there's only one problem the
game originally came out in 2004 and ran
on Windows Vista but Alex doesn't have
that operating system installed on her
computer she's using the newest version
of Windows 11 and she doesn't want to
change that this means that they have to
find a way to run Windows Vista to play
the game but you can't have two
operating systems on one computer right
so what can they do Logan suggests that
they they use a virtual machine running
the game on a virtual machine means
it'll run in an isolated sandbox
environment this works well for Alex
because she has very important files on
her hard drive and she doesn't want to
risk a system
crash this way they can experience the
classic gameplay of Halo 2 and Alex's
files are safe Alex is immediately on
board with the idea she gets a VM app
and creates a virtual machine on her
computer using a hyper visor now she has
a virtual computer environment next she
installs a licensed version of Windows
Vista as the operating system and now
she just needs to install the game she
purchased they are both very excited
when the game's title screen appears it
works but how is it possible it's
because the virtual machine uses the CPU
RAM and memory of Alex's computer but it
doesn't share its operating system it's
complete completely separate it's like
having another computer inside your
computer it's great for experimenting
with programming testing out new
software or like Alex and Logan playing
games that don't work on your regular
system you can think of it as your own
Digital Playground you can do incredible
things with it in Alex and Logan's case
they can experience the authentic
gameplay of a game that came out over
two decades ago all thanks to a virtual
machine the night flies by and before
they know it it's almost Sunrise what a
great experience and now they can't wait
to play other retro games using virtual
machines gaming Marathon number two here
we come Alex and Logan's experience
shows that virtual machines don't have
to only be used for work purposes they
can also enhance your life in other ways
like helping you play retro games what
will you do with
virtualization Sam Scoops are thinking
of ways to improve sales so they want to
hire a remote consultant to analyze
their data and create detailed Financial
reports however granting remote access
comes with security risks and potential
data breaches how can they allow a
consultant to access the data without
risking that it will be copied or
downloaded Sam suggests that a new
desktop computer should be bought so
that it can be set aside for the
consultant to work on remotely but this
is quite costly there must be a better
solution to this problem
and there is azzure virtual desktop in
this video you will learn about Azure
virtual desktop a product that makes
remote work possible while ensuring
security and compliance with rules and
policies so what is a virtual desktop a
virtual desktop is like a regular
computer just without a physical
presence this kind of computer can have
everything you have on a desktop machine
in fact you use it just like your
regular desktop computer
but you can access it from anywhere on a
computer or mobile device there are
several benefits to using a virtual
desktop you can use it for office work
as mentioned in the scenario or for
occasional heavy specialized work like
3D rendering by using it you don't have
to spend a lot of money on buying a
powerful physical computer only to leave
it unused for extended periods but
probably the biggest benefit of using a
virtual desktop is that it can provide a
secure way to access information with
tailored security policies since data is
stored centrally it can be protected
with robust security measures this
reduces the risk of data loss theft or
unauthorized access helping to safeguard
your sensitive information by minimizing
dependence on physical Hardware
businesses can also cut down on
maintenance Azure virtual desktop
formerly known as Windows Virtual
desktop is a versatile desktop and
application virtual ation service
offered by Microsoft Azure it allows
businesses to host and manage virtual
desktops and applications on the Azure
platform granting users safe remote
access to resources from any device or
location Azure virtual desktop offers a
true bring your own device experience
because you can use your virtual
desktops from literally any device be it
another Windows machine a Linux or Mac
OS one or an Android or iOS phone you
can even use it straight from a browser
that's quite impressive Azure virtual
desktop has several benefits compared to
traditional virtual desktop
infrastructure or vdi Solutions it's
highly scalable making it possible for
businesses to add or remove virtual
desktops and applications as required it
also supports multi- session Windows 10
and windows 11 allowing multiple users
to log into the same virtual desktop at
the same time while still enjoying their
own personalized desktop this lowers
costs and simplifies management another
advantage of azure virtual desktop is
its seamless integration with Microsoft
365 allowing users to collaborate on
Microsoft 365 apps and data within their
virtual desktop environment this ensures
a smooth experience for users and
enhances teamwork across groups Azure
virtual Des desktop also supports
multiactor authentication or MFA adding
an extra layer of security to prevent
unauthorized access another exciting
feature available on Azure virtual
desktop is remote app streaming this
feature allows organizations to isolate
individual applications from the user's
local desktop environment what this
means is that you can install a remote
app on a virtual desktop then users can
add a shortcut of those remote apps on
their local machines and when they click
on the shortcut it opens the app this
seems to work just like regular software
on their local PC but the app is
actually working in the remote desktop
users can access applications through
Azure virtual desktop without installing
them on their local devices with the
remote app streaming feature you can use
Azure virtual desktop to deliver apps
straight to your customers over a secure
network through virtual machines it also
provides an experience for the end user
similar to a locally installed
application with the ability to access
local storage printers USB devices and
other resources on the client device as
needed in this video you learned about
virtual desktops how they work and what
benefits they can have for a business
like Sam's in addition you've also
learned about Azure virtual desktop from
Microsoft and some of its exciting
features by giving the consultant access
via a virtual desktop Sam Scoops can get
the financial analysis they need without
having to worry about security risks or
data breaches isn't that
great by now you know cloud computing
allows you to share resources like
servers and software rather than using
local servers or personal devices it is
a model for enabling on-demand access to
a shared pool of configurable computing
resources such as servers storage data
spaces networking software analytics and
artificial intelligence in this video
you will learn about these core
components of the cloud computing model
but first let's revisit what cloud
computing is just to refresh your memory
you've already learned that cloud
computing can be used to store data run
applications provide additional services
and access to resources through the
internet anytime anywhere from different
types of devices it's extremely flexible
and scalable you can quickly and easily
increase or decrease your Computing
resources as needed and only pay for the
resources you use this reduces cost and
complexity compared to traditional it
infrastructure another Advantage cloud
computing has over more traditional
infrastructure is that cloud providers
are responsible for keeping their
networks and services running all the
time so you do not have to worry about
managing the infrastructure yourself
this ensures reliability and
availability Cloud providers also offer
industry-leading security measures to
protect and secure your
data now let's discuss the core
components of the cloud computing model
starting with servers and databases
Cloud servers provide the user with
OnDemand access to computing power
storage and other services that can be
scaled up or down as needed a database
in cloud computing residing on a Cloud
Server is a storage space space for a
collection of data often stored in a
structured format and managed by a
software system that will automatically
scale the storage on demand you can
think of it as a library where books
represent data and the librarian
represents the software system that
manages the
collection just like a librarian
organizes books into categories and
keeps track of their location a database
management system organizes data into
tables and manages its storage and
retrieval the benefit of the cloud is
that the librarian can build new rooms
as they are needed Cloud databases are
hosted on a remote server providing you
with convenient access to your data
without having to maintain your own
physical Hardware they can also be
scaled up or down depending on the
user's needs and they often provide
better security and performance than
traditional on premises
databases Cloud databases are
increasingly popular for businesses with
growing data needs that require access
to data quickly and securely when it
comes to Cloud networking Cloud
providers have their own networks that
connect their customers to resources and
allow data to be transferred between
them these networks are typically highly
redundant and fault tolerant meaning
that they are designed to minimize
downtime and Ensure High availability of
services internet connectivity is
essential to access cloud services which
can be done through wired or wireless
connections addition
virtual private networks vpns provide a
secure way to connect to Cloud resources
over the Internet which is crucial for
maintaining data security like databases
software is also stored on servers and
it's accessed through the internet
rather than stored and run on your local
device this allows you to access the
software from anywhere as long as you
have an internet connection for this
reason cloud computing allows for easy
collaboration and data sharing and as a
bonus the software is also updated
automatically in Computing the process
of analyzing and interpreting data to
make informed decisions is known as
analytics this is another core component
of the cloud computing model typically
this process is performed on very large
amounts of data which the cloud is well
suited to store cloud-based analytics
can provide businesses and organizations
with valuable insights into their data
which can be used to enhance operations
identify growth opportunities and make
informed decisions Additionally the
insights gained from cloud-based
analytics can be incorporated into data
sets that can be used for machine
learning but what exactly is machine
learning and artificial intelligence
artificial intelligence or AI is a
branch of computer science that focuses
on creating intelligent machines that
can do tasks that typically require
human intelligence
AI algorithms are used to solve complex
problems such as recognizing objects in
an image understanding language and
playing games machine learning on the
other hand is a subset of artificial
intelligence and computer science that
focuses on the use of data and
algorithms to imitate the way that
humans learn gradually improving its
accuracy machine learning algorithms
learn from data by building mathematical
models to recognize patterns and make
predictions
for example machine learning can
identify patterns in large data sets
such as customer Behavior or stock
market trends isn't it amazing to think
that machines can learn to make
decisions independently and become
smarter over time in summary cloud
computing offers a range of benefits
including more flexibility scalability
and better security than traditional it
infrastructure it's a coste effective
way to access and use technology ology
Services over the internet without
buying physical Hardware it can be
tailored to fit the needs of each
individual user or business and can be
used to develop solutions to complex
problems cloud computing is here to stay
and will continue to play a significant
role in the future of
technology machine learning or ml is a
branch of AI that is all about training
a machine by providing it with data and
asking it to process and interpret that
data using algorithms
given enough data the machine will be
able to identify patterns and then
provide direction or insight into a
problem as well as make decisions or
predictions cloud-based ml services
offer an accessible and cost-effective
way to incorporate ml capabilities into
businesses without requiring extensive
expertise or resources this video
explains the common uses of ml platforms
and services that could improve Sam
scoop's business operations for first is
managed ml platforms which provide a
comprehensive Suite of tools to build
train and deploy machine learning models
they often come with pre-built
algorithms and an environment that
simplifies the development process by
using a managed ml platform Sam Scoops
can create a sales prediction model to
forecast ice cream flavors popularity
based on historical sales data weather
and customer
preferences this could enable them to
adjust their inventory and production to
meet customer demand more effectively
next is Automated machine learning or
automl which are services that
automatically select the best algorithms
and parameters for a given problem
thereby simplifying the machine learning
process for beginners by using an autom
ml service Sam Scoops can quickly build
and deploy models without having to
learn about various machine learning
techniques or spend time fine-tuning the
models for instance Sam Scoops can use
an autom ml service to predict potential
non-returning customers and take
targeted actions to retain them there
are also pre-trained ml models these are
machine learning models that have
already been trained on vast data sets
and can be used off the shelf to solve
specific tasks by using these pre-built
models businesses can save the time and
resources required for training models
from scratch many Cloud platforms offer
these pre-trained models which can be
easily integrated into applications for
Sam Scoops a pre-trained ml model can be
used for natural language processing or
NLP sentiment analysis on customer
reviews this can help Sam understand
customer feedback and identify areas for
improvement in products or Services
additionally a pre-trained image
recognition model could be employed to
identify the most popular ice cream
toppings and combinations from images
posted by customers on social media
other Services Sam Scoops could use are
data storage and processing Services
these are essential components of any
machine learning pipeline Cloud
platforms provide scalable and Secure
Storage Solutions as well as tools to
clean pre-process and transform data for
ML purposes for Sam Scoops data storage
Services can be used to store sales Data
customer information and other relevant
data sets data processing tools can then
help pre-process and clean this data
make making it ready for use in ml
models last is cloud-based deployment
and monitoring Services which ensure
that ml models are available for use in
realtime applications and help maintain
their performance these Services enable
businesses to host their ml models for
easy integration into applications
monitoring Services track model
performance and alert users to any
anomalies or problems Sam Scoops can use
deployment services to host their sales
prediction and customer churn models
they can then use monitoring services to
ensure these models continue to perform
well over time and they can adapt them
as needed based on new customer data or
customer feedback in summary cloud-based
machine learning services offer a wide
range of capabilities for businesses
even those new to the field for Sam
Scoops using managed ml platforms automl
Services pre-trained ml models and data
storage and processing Services can help
improve invent management customer
retention and overall business
operations artificial intelligence or AI
is a field of computer science that
focuses on creating intelligent machines
capable of Performing tasks without
human intervention integrating AI into
businesses can help automate processes
make predictions and enable datadriven
decision-making leading to improved
efficiency and profitability in this
video you will learn how Sam Scoops can
benefit from integrating AI into into
its operations one of the key aspects of
running an ice cream store is inventory
management keeping the right balance of
stock to meet customer demands without
overstocking is crucial for reducing
waste and maximizing profits AI can help
in this area by analyzing past sales
data weather patterns and seasonal
Trends to forecast future demand for
different ice cream flavors using AI
power demand forecasting Sam can make
more informed decisions about which
products to stock up on and when to
order them this can lead to a more
efficient supply chain and less waste
caused by expired or unsold products AI
can also help create a more personalized
experience for customers leading to
increased satisfaction and loyalty
machine learning algorithms can analyze
customer purchase history preferences
and other data to provide personalized
recommendations and promotions for
example if a customer frequently buys a
specific ice cream flavor or combination
the AI system can recommend similar
flavors or promotional offers tailored
to their preferences this personalized
approach can encourage customers to try
new products and increase their overall
spending at the store understanding
customer feedback is essential for any
business to improve its products and
services AI powered sentiment analysis
can help Sam analyze customer reviews
and social media posts to gain valuable
insights into customers likes and
dislikes
by employing natural language processing
or NLP techniques AI can identify
positive and negative sentiment in
customer feedback allowing store owners
to identify areas of improvement and
capitalize on their strengths this can
lead to better customer satisfaction
increased sales and a stronger brand
reputation in any business employee
scheduling can be a complex and timec
consuming task AI can help streamline
this process by analyzing historical
data on employee performance
availability and customer traffic
patterns to create optimized work
schedules for Sam Scoops AI can identify
peak times when more staff members are
needed ensuring service quality by
minimizing the time customers waight AI
can also assign tasks to employees based
on their strengths leading to a more
efficient Workforce and a better work
environment AI can also be integrated
into marketing strategies to improve
targeting and customer retention machine
learning algorithms can identify
patterns in customer behavior and
segment customers based on their
preferences demographics and purchase
history for Sam Scoops this can
translate into creating targeted
marketing campaigns such as sending
personalized emails or inapp
notifications to customers with offers
that are more likely to resonate with
them additionally AI can help identify
potentially non-returning customers and
suggest Pro proactive steps to retain
them such as offering special promotions
or Loyalty Rewards one last way in which
AI can help improve Sam scoop's business
operations is with AI powered chatbots
they can significantly enhance customer
support by providing instant answers to
frequently asked questions taking orders
or assisting with product inquiries by
integrating a chatbot into the ice cream
store's website or mobile app customers
can get immediate assistance leading to
increased sales and satisfaction the
chatbot can also gather valuable
customer data and feedback which can be
used to improve the store's products and
services further in conclusion
integrating AI into Sam scoop's business
operations can lead to significant
improvements in various aspects of the
business including Inventory management
customer experience employee scheduling
marketing and customer
support previously you learned about the
different services that Microsoft Azure
offers and that different payment
options exist like pay as you go and
spot instances but how does that
actually work how can a business acquire
and use these offerings well just like
renting things like a home or a bike you
can rent Microsoft Azure Services too
but when is it beneficial for a business
to rent cloud services in this video you
will explore different business costing
models and the business require reir Ms
determining whether renting cloud
services is ideal or not this
information can help Sam decide on a
strategy to keep up with demand she
urgently needs to consider how to
modernize her processes and systems
without creating too many upfront costs
let's get started renting is a common
concept it especially makes sense when
something is just too expensive to buy
straight away you can rent a home a bike
a party costume and many other things
but the other benefit of renting is that
it prevents you from spending a lot of
money on something you're going to use
only temporarily libraries are built on
this concept why buy a book you'll only
read once after which it'll just sit on
your
bookshelf sometimes renting simply makes
sense this is true for businesses too
especially because startup costs can be
high and a business might not have the
knowhow to maintain and service
expensive equipment renting public cloud
services takes care of The Upfront costs
as well as the effort and costs of
Maintenance to determine if renting or
buying is better for a business you need
to understand two business costing
models Capital expenditures or capex and
operating expenses or Opex capex
involves big initial purchases for Sam
Scoops this could include the initial
purchase of the equipment used to make
the ice cream and the networking
technology these are their fixed assets
and they require a upfront payments Opex
on the other hand involves all
day-to-day expenses like buying ice
cream supplies each month and paying
internet service provider fees Opex
costs are spread throughout the year a
business can decide to use the Opex
costing model to rent cloud services on
a month-to-month basis in this case a
small business doesn't have to carry the
burden of upfront costs and although
renting costs increase month-to-month
overheads software maintenance like free
upgrades is a major advantage let's
discuss Sam scoop's unique business
needs to evaluate if renting cloud
services is a good option for them Sam
Scoops is struggling to meet the demand
for their products and need to modernize
some areas of the business to keep up
for instance their accounting and sales
processes are not efficient enough but
the business does not have a lot of
money in the bank so spending money on
these issues upfront using capex is not
an option option Sam is also concerned
about the impact that the introduction
of complex it systems to the business
can have she doesn't have many staff
members and wants to keep her focus on
selling ice cream and not managing
complex systems and at the moment Sam
doesn't have an IT team to build and
support any tools she needs a solution
that is simple and ready to use straight
away without causing support and
maintenance issues for her staff Sam
heard that renting anything as a service
might address these immediate business
needs for instance they want to sell
their products online and need an
ordering app or an e-commerce website
one solution could be to rent a platform
from the public Cloud on which a
developer can develop an ordering app or
they could rent infrastructure like a
server to run an e-commerce website both
of these Cloud Solutions have challenges
though she needs this solution urgently
and it will take time to develop an app
or an e-commerce website site she will
also have to pay a developer to develop
it and if she rents Cloud infrastructure
someone on the team will need to install
and maintain it Sam doubts that the team
has the time or skills to do this she
needs readymade Cloud solutions that
will not cost too much to start off and
will be easy to maintain in the long run
in the rest of this lesson you will
explore different anything as a service
offerings in more detail to find out
which of these cloud Solutions might be
the ideal option for Sam Scoops in this
video you learned that renting equipment
or Services can help a business scale
faster because it lightens the burden of
its initial capital expenditure or capex
using the Opex approach to renting cloud
services spreads the cost over time and
enables a small startup business like
Sam Scoops to still acquire the services
and equipment they
need by now you should be familiar with
different different types of anything as
a service offerings and how they differ
in terms of the shared responsibility
between provider and client recall that
platform as a service or p and
infrastructure as a service or iaz will
require a lot of time effort finances
and skills for a small startup such as
Sam scoops on the other hand software as
a service or SAS places the least
responsibility on end users and might
therefore be the ideal Cloud solution
for them as a new business they don't
have the in-house skills time or
financial resources to develop their own
applications they need out-of-the-box
solutions that will require minimum
input and responsibility on their end in
this video you will explore SAS in more
detail exploring its characteristics
examples and certain disadvantages let's
get started SZ is the most complete
cloud service model from a product
perspective with SAS you're essentially
renting or using a fully developed
application email Financial software
messaging applications and video
connectivity software are all common
examples of SAS implementation SZ is by
far the easiest anything as a service
solution to get up and running and it
requires the least amount of technical
knowledge or expertise to fully employed
so how do the provider and the client
share responsibilities in the SAS model
well let's start with a client who
carries the least amount of
responsibilities they are responsible
for the data that they put into the
system the devices that they allow to
connect to the system and the users that
have access nearly everything else falls
to the cloud provider the cloud provider
is responsible for the physical security
of the data centers processing power
network connectivity and application
development and patching this fits
precisely with what Sam Scoops needs to
modernize its business
processes besides SAS also eliminates
the need to have it professionals
develop and install applications on each
computer and deal with any technical
issues all of these responsibilities lie
with the application providers so how do
you know if a software offering is SAS
or not to help you identify a SAS
application or service you can ask
yourself these four questions is the
application managed from a central
location is it hosted remotely is it
accessible over the internet and is the
provider responsible for the
maintenance if the answers to these
questions are yes it's most likely SAS
SZ is widespread and you might already
be using it every day let's think of a
few examples video on demand is SAS you
pay a video streaming provider and you
can use its service via a web page or
app app Microsoft 365 is another example
of SAS that you might be using every day
when you are subscribed to Microsoft 365
you can use the desktop applications
access the applications via the Internet
or even use it on a phone but this model
also has some disadvantages SAS
providers do all the development and
maintenance of their services and this
can be very expensive so in order to
make profit they need as many users as
possible to sub subscribe and use their
service and because it needs to appeal
to many different customers SAS
Solutions often allow very little
customization because customizing one
aspect affects all customers using the
service fortunately sad subscriptions
are periodically structured this means
that a customer can test it out for a
period and then cancel the service if it
doesn't serve them well in some cases
customers can also recommend changes for
a later version of a SAS applic a in
conclusion SAS is a great model for
businesses that are just starting out it
allows users to consume applications and
services over the internet without any
infrastructure in place and users do not
need to worry about maintenance or
support issues since this is all taken
care of by the SAS provider this means
you can use it straight away but
remember because SAS caters to a wide
audience customization is limited Sam
now knows which anything as a service
solution will help her business meet the
demand and keep on growing the answer is
SAS the most difficult step would be to
find the most suitable SAS applications
for their specific business needs and
the rest of this lesson will guide you
in this
consideration you've reached the end of
this section of the course on cloud
computing and networking you should now
be able to describe Azure and its
available Services explain how
virtualization Works discuss common AI
types and the resources that support
them and describe common anything as a
service models and throughout the videos
readings and exercises you explored
several ways in which Sam can modernize
her business processes with cloud
services let's take a few minutes to
review what you've learned in the first
lesson you were introduced to Azure
Microsoft's cloud computing platform and
how it can help organizations build
deploy and manage their applications and
services in the cloud Azure is a
scalable and flexible cloud computing
platform that provides a wide range of
services like Computing resources
storage networking and Security Services
you explored the different components of
azure these are Azure Network Services
Azure analytics Azure app Services Azure
bot services and Azure Security Services
you also evaluated the benefits and
drawbacks of cloud computing some
benefits include cost effectiveness
scalability and remote access but
security risks dependence on internet
connectivity and limited control are
some of the drawbacks in the cloud
transformation exercise you explored how
Sam Scoops can use cloud Technologies to
overcome its it infrastructure
limitations remember Cloud
transformation is the process of
migrating an organization's it
infrastructure applications and data to
the cloud moving on to the next lesson
you learned all about virtual
environments recall that in a
virtualized environment a software
program called a hypervisor is installed
on a computer the hypervisor creates
virtual versions of the physical
resources such as virtual CPUs memory
and storage you also explore different
types of virtual machines or VMS you
should now be able to identify the
different categories of VMS which
include general purpose compute
optimized memory optimized storage optim
optimized GPU optimized and burstable
additionally you should now be familiar
with the different pricing models of the
Microsoft Azure platform and you should
Now understand the difference between
VMS and containers in the next lesson
you took a deep dive into cloud services
this included learning about cloud
computing and how it's used in the real
world you should now have a solid
understanding of the different Computing
Services from Microsoft Azure and how
they can be used used to create manage
and deploy applications and resources in
the cloud you learned about the features
and benefits of Microsoft Azure virtual
machines app service and container
instances this is also where you learned
how businesses can incorporate
cloud-based machine learning and
artificial intelligence in essence AI
includes all processes that create
intelligent machines while machine
learning is the specific domain of AI
that uses algorithms that can learn
learn from data integrating AI into
businesses can help automate processes
make predictions and enable datadriven
decisionmaking examples of AI include
demand forecasting and automated
marketing ml can help overall business
operations such as inventory management
and customer retention by teaching
computers how to learn from data
cloud-based ml Solutions include managed
ml platforms autom ml services and
pre-trained ml models which simplify the
machine learning process for beginners
then in the last lesson you learned
about anything as a service anything as
a service is the alternative to
businesses providing services to
themselves like having their own servers
and data centers and you learned that
businesses can rent anything as a
service solutions enabling them to scale
faster because it lightens the burden of
initial capital expenditure or capex
using the Opex approach to rent cloud
services spreads the cost over time
anything as a service includes different
Cloud Solutions such as software as a
service or SAS platform as a service or
PAs and infrastructure as a service or
iaz remember with SAS customers rent a
fully developed application such as a
video streaming platform or Microsoft
365 Pas on the other hand is a complete
development environment in the cloud and
developers use to create and publish new
programs or apps quickly and easily and
the IAS model is the most flexible
category of cloud services providing
clients with maximum control over
everything apart from the actual
Hardware you should now know that all
anything as a service models differ in
terms of the level of shared
responsibility between the provider and
the client which poses different
advantages and
disadvantages and that brings you to the
end of this summary video you've gained
a tremendous amount of new knowledge in
the section about cloud computing and
networking and what's more you are
almost done with a course in the final
week of the course you will gain a real
life example of the role you could play
in the digital transformation of a
business this will give you the
opportunity to apply the knowledge
you've gained in the previous weeks by
completing a scenario based project but
for now the next step is to complete the
weekly quiz good
luck you've almost reached the end of
the introduction to networking and cloud
computing course you should feel proud
for keeping up with all the videos
readings quizzes and
exercises through your continuous effort
you've gained a solid foundation in the
main concepts of networking Network
infrastructure and monitoring network
security components approaches and
mitigation and the cloud computing
environment virtual machines and cloud
services what's left now is to
demonstrate the the skills you've
learned in the final course project you
will be tasked with producing a digital
transformation plan for Sam Scoops
Network and then you will complete the
final graded course quiz but before you
get to that let's recap what you have
learned up to this point the project and
graded quiz will test everything you've
learned in the course so use this recap
to check which parts of the course
you're unsure about and have to review
again before you continue in the very
first week you got an introduction to
the basics of computer networking you
learned about computer networks and how
data is transmitted across a network
different network types and topologies
the purpose of the Internet Protocol as
well as key aspects of Ip addressing
this involved learning about types of
area networks including local area
networks and wide area networks or WS
like the internet you learned about
different topologies like the star bus
and tree topology and you also covered
physical and logical
topologies then you discovered the steps
involved in data transmission if you
don't recall these make sure to review
them before taking the quiz next you
were introduced to the Internet Protocol
or IP and its Code system known as IP
addresses you learned about the two IP
address versions ipv4 and
IPv6 you also practiced how to check the
IP address of a device after learning
about the basics of computer networking
you took a deep dive into network
devices and protocols in the next week
this section of the course gave you
insight into devices used in networks
and the underlying architecture that
allows these devices to
communicate here you learned about
hybrid networking the internet the
internet of things and discovered the
key differences between on premise and
public Cloud
infrastructure in addition you learned
about layered architecture and explored
the flow of communication over a network
using the OSI model this model separates
the communication process into smaller
parts or layers which makes it easier to
understand specific aspects of data
transmission and assist in
troubleshooting you also discovered
tcpip which is the suite of protocols
that serves as the rule book for
communication over the internet and it
also consists of layers each responsible
for specific tasks in the next lesson
you explored protocols in more depth and
also learned about ports and their
purpose recall that when data travels on
a network it needs to go through certain
ports to access specific protocols there
is a range of port numbers that allow
various types of data to be sent and
received by specific applications over a
network you concluded this lesson by
learning about network monitoring which
involves checking what protocols and
data are moving around a network and
monitoring performance and security
threats you then moved on to learn about
the health and Metric analysis of
networks and how they can be used to
manage traffic to optimize a network in
the third week you worked through
several aspects of Network Security
Essential Knowledge for anyone
considering a career in cyber security
you started off by learning about client
server networks and that servers are the
primary provider of services whereas
clients are the primary user users of
these Services you explored different
client server models such as the request
response model and the publish subscribe
model you also gained a lot of knowledge
about different types of servers and
clients the next section covered remote
access its benefits and the tools and
technologies that make it possible you
learned about the various authentication
and authorization methods that give
users access to networks this included
exploring various types of
Authentication mechanisms such as two-
Factor authentication and various types
of authorization policies you also
examine the difference between the
internet an Extranet and an intranet you
learned how vpns form part of the access
control system that allows users to be
authorized within the organization's
Network system and you covered common
VPN protocols then you investigated
several aspects of security such as the
types of cyber attacks and the
strategies Network administrators used
to mitigate them can you recall the
difference between packet sniffing
packet spoofing and IP spoofing and can
you recall other common attack types
such as man- in the-middle attacks dos
back doors password cracking and SQL
injection you should now be familiar
with network security strategies such as
firewalls password policies intrusion
detection systems and antimalware tools
remember General Network maintenance
such as software updates vulnerability
assessment and system logs can also
protect against various types of attacks
and don't forget that educating Network
users about Network best practices is
essential because human error is often
considered the main weak Link in a
network in the final lesson you learned
all about firewalls and how Network
administrators optimize them by setting
zones with different security levels and
firewall policies made up of many rules
week four was all about networks in the
cloud you were introduced to Azure
functionalities and supplementary
services and how to leverage them within
a network next you moved on to
understand the digital transformation
process for business enterprises from a
networking perspective Additionally you
explored virtualization machine learning
Ai and various cloud services you should
now be familiar with azure's virtual
desktop which grants users safe remote
access to resources from any device or
location finally you concluded your
Learning Journey by learning about
anything as a service which is a
collective term for any service that is
provided over a network and in most
cases across the Internet it's an
alternative to a business providing
services with its own servers and data
centers the main types of anything as a
service include SAS Pas and iaz and they
differ in terms of which
responsibilities reside with the cloud
provider and the
customer and that's it for this review
of the course wow you covered a lot in
this course this might only be the start
of your journey toward a career in cyber
security but you can be very proud of
yourself for how much you've already
learned and accomplished now you're
ready to tackle the course project and
graded assessment quiz good luck you've
got this and remember to refer to any of
the lessons you completed to refresh
your memory when
needed congratulations you made it to
the end of the introduction to
networking and cloud computing course
your hard work and dedication have paid
off and you've shown that you have what
it takes to master key concepts of cyber
security with this course under your
belt you now have a solid foundation to
build upon as you continue your Learning
Journey you've gained a thorough
understanding of networking Concepts
common Network infrastructure and cloud
computing environment ments by
successfully completing all the courses
in the series you will earn a Microsoft
cyber security analyst professional
certificate from corsera this program is
truly a great way to expand your
understanding of cyber security
challenges and gaining a qualification
will allow you to apply for entry-level
jobs in the field the courses in this
program also help you prepare for the
sc900 exam by passing the sc900 exam
you'll earn the Microsoft security
compliance sence and identity
fundamentals
certification this globally recognized
certification is industry endorsed
evidence of your technical skills and
knowledge the sc900 exam measures your
knowledge about concepts of security
compliance and identity capabilities of
Microsoft Azure active directory as part
of Microsoft entra capabilities of
Microsoft Security Solutions and
capabilities of Microsoft compliance
Solutions to complete the exam you
should be familiar with Microsoft Azure
and Microsoft 365 and understand how
Microsoft security compliance and
identity strategies provide an endtoend
solution across these platforms please
remember to check out more information
about the exam you can visit the
Microsoft certifications page at
www.learn.cashtracking.com
compliance and identity fundamental
certification and
exam this course has enhanced your
Knowledge and Skills in networking and
cloud computing but what comes next
there's definitely more to learn so it's
a good move to register for the next
course in the Microsoft cyber security
analyst program about threat vectors and
mitigation it covers various types of
cyber threats and their impact
historical cyber attacks and the methods
the attack attackers used to exploit
vulnerabilities the vectors attackers Ed
to gain access to systems and sensitive
information and what the different
available mitigation services are to
protect against cyber threats whether
you're a novice or just starting out as
a technical professional completing the
whole program will show potential
employers that you are motivated capable
and not afraid to learn new things it's
been a pleasure to embark on this
journey of Discovery with you best of
luck in the future imagine a world where
your personal and sensitive information
is vulnerable to cyber threats a world
where anyone can access your bank
account email and social media profiles
with just the click of a button does
this sound like a place you would want
to live in the reality is that cyber
threats are becoming increasingly common
making it more important than ever to
have a strong understanding of how to
protect against them to ensure a world
like that doesn't
materialize this is why this course is
designed to benefit anyone interested in
cyber security whether you're looking to
start a career in the field or simply
want to brush up on your skills you'll
gain a thorough understanding of the
different types of cyber threats and
learn effective mitigation strategies to
safeguard against them with that in mind
let's go over what your Learning Journey
over the next 5 weeks entails to begin
you'll explore the active threat
landscape and learn more about different
attack vectors you'll learn to
differentiate between the various types
of threats facing your systems and data
evaluate the various attack Vector types
and their potential impact and discover
mitigation strategies to protect your
systems and data from Potential Threat
threats then you'll explore the
fundamental concepts and techniques of
cryptography to protect data and secure
communication you'll learn about
encryption public and private Keys
hashing digital signing certificates and
how authentication and authorization
play a critical role in securing systems
you'll compare symmetric and asymmetric
encryption by analyzing different
cryptographic methods and standards
discover the public private key and
hashing technique by evaluating secure
data and communication protection plans
and discuss centralized Authentication
and authorization methods by evaluating
their effectiveness thereafter you'll
focus on the various types of network
and device-based threats and review the
importance of security controls in
protecting against them you'll explore
methods to keep applications and devices
up to date reducing the risk of cyber
threats then you'll evaluate the impact
of data transmission threats on network
security and assess the effectiveness of
firewall optimization and safeguarding
against cyber tax you will also review
the significance of network segmentation
in boosting security and discover
potential risks related to device
security and finally you'll discover
strategies for mitigating these risks
and ultimately learn how to strengthen
cybercity defenses overall next you'll
learn about security compliance and
identity management in cyber security
you'll explore the laws regulations and
Industry standards that organizations
follow to ensure their systems and data
remain secure furthermore you'll learn
about best practices for managing access
to resources and identities within an
organization and explore various
security compliance and risk management
strategies like the zero trust model and
continuous traffic monitoring to detect
any unusual network activity you'll also
examine the role of identity management
an active directory in Security
Management and discover different
defense models and finally you'll apply
what you've learned by creating your own
compliance strategy for the end of
course project this will help you
demonstrate your understanding of the
key Concepts and best practices for
protecting against cyber threats
throughout the course you will encounter
many videos that will gradually guide
you towards your goal of pursuing a
career in cyber security
watch pause rewind and rewatch The
videos until you are confident in your
skills then consolidate your knowledge
by Consulting the course readings and
measuring your understanding of key
Topics by completing the different
knowledge checks and quizzes this will
set you on your way toward a career in
cyber security and form part of your
preparation to take the sc900 exam
Microsoft security compliance and
identity Fundamentals by the end of the
course you'll be equipped with the
necessary skills to safeguard your
systems and data against potential cyber
threats creating a safe more secure
world for yourself and those around you
imagine you've just ordered a cup of
your favorite ice cream from Sam's
scoops and you can't wait to savor every
bite but as you sit down to enjoy your
first scoop a thief quickly swoops in
and tries to steal your delicious treat
just like that Thief cyber attackers are
always looking for opportunities to
steal valuable information in fact a new
Cyber attack occurs every 39 seconds
somewhere in the world that's like
having
2,244 ice cream stolen in a single day
while this this is a simple analogy
cyber attacks are very real and they
pose a threat to individuals and
businesses of all sizes imagine waking
up one day to find that your personal
information has been stolen or arriving
at work to find your computer locked
with a message stating that a ransom is
required to get your data back but what
can you do to protect yourself in this
video you'll gain a deeper understanding
of cyber attacks their various types and
the different methods hackers use to
execute them let's begin by exploring
what a Cyber attack is a Cyber attack is
a malicious attempt made by cyber
criminals to interrupt cause damage or
gain unauthorized access to computer
systems or networks these attacks can
happen through different mediums like
emails websites or social media and use
methods such as malware fishing
ransomware or social
engineering but don't worry if you're
not familiar with these methods just yet
as this course will help you explore
what they are and teach you how to
protect against them so that you can
keep your valuable data secure as you
delve deeper into understanding the
types of cyber attacks and the methods
used by cyber criminals it's important
to consider the purpose behind these
attacks cyber criminals have various
motives for carrying out cyber attacks
depending on the attacker's intentions
some might Target businesses While
others Target individuals the motive for
these attacks is mostly for financial
gain by either stealing money or
acquiring sensitive data While others
may have political motives and Target
government or corporate entities to
disrupt operations or obtain
confidential information cyber attacks
may also be a form of SPN or sabotage
where attackers aim to harm the
reputation or operations of a Target
organization there's even a small
percentage of people who carry out cyber
attacks as an act of vandalism for
entertainment purposes but how are these
attacks carried out cyber criminals use
a variety of sophisticated methods often
combining social engineering tactics and
Technical exploits for instance malware
is one of the most common cyber attacks
as it includes viruses worms and troan
horses and can be used to steal data
take control of systems or cause damage
to software and Hardware another type is
fishing this Cyber attack tricks an
individual into disclosing sensitive
information like login credentials or
credit card numbers you may have also
heard of ransomware this is a
particularly malicious type of attack
that can lock users out of their systems
and files demanding a ransom to regain
access and finally cyber criminals can
also use social engineering tactics
which involve manipulating people into
performing actions that may not be in
their best interest unfortunately the
consequence es of these cyber attacks
can be severe and can have a significant
impact on individuals and businesses if
an attack is successful it could result
in identity theft Financial loss and
harm to your credit score while
businesses could face reputational
damage loss of customer confidence and
financial penalties for non-compliance
with data protection regulations the
business may even have to shut down if
they're unable to recover from a severe
Cyber attack so with all these potential
risks of cyber attacks it's vital that
individuals and businesses stay vigilant
and take steps to protect themselves
fortunately you can Implement several
security features that help prevent
cyber attacks from occurring such as
firewalls antivirus software data
encryption and ensuring your systems are
kept up to date with the latest patches
and updates you should also ensure you
stay informed about the latest threats
and Trends in cyber security well done
you've now learned that cyber attacks
are a real and growing threat that can
have severe consequences for individuals
and businesses you discover that through
awareness and proper security measures
you can mitigate the risks and protect
yourself from falling victim to these
attacks in upcoming lessons you'll learn
more about the latest cyber threats and
build your understanding of the security
features that you can Implement to stay
one step ahead of the Cyber criminals
remember the more you know about cyber
attacks and their methods the better
prepared you'll be to prevent them so
keep learning and stay vigilant to keep
your data
secure imagine that you're working on
your computer when suddenly you notice
that it's running extremely slow you
think that it's because you don't have
enough space on your local drive so you
decide to Simply delete some files but
as you try to do this you're greeted
with a pop-up message instead stating
that a virus has infected your computer
and corrupted all your files this will
be pretty devastating wouldn't you
agree unfortunately this scenario
happens to thousands of people every day
this is why it's so important to
understand the different types of
malware and their impact so that you can
be better equipped to protect yourself
against them you've already explored the
dangers of worms and their ability to
spread through networks and devices but
worms are just one type of malware among
many in this video you'll dive deeper
into this topic by exploring two other
common types of malware Trojans and
viruses you'll discover what they are
how they work and the significant
impacts they can have let's start with
Trojans which is a short term for Trojan
Horse you might be wondering where this
term came from well in Greek mythology
the Trojan Horse was an enormous wooden
structure disguised as a gift to the
city of Troy but in reality Greek
soldiers were riding inside the horse
and they used it as a cover to sneak
their troops into the city in cyber
security Trojans work in a similar way
gaining access to your computer by
pretending to be something else aosion
is a special type of malware that can
disguise itself as a legitimate file or
piece of software it does this to trick
you into downloading and installing it
once the troan is installed the attacker
can remotely manipulate your system
allowing them to steal important data
and get access to the data or
applications on your computer Trojans
can even work as key loggers reading key
strokes and stealing logging credentials
or credit card information unlike
viruses Trojans can't replicate on their
own instead attackers use social
engineering tactics to trick users into
installing them troan are typically
delivered through fishing emails
malicious downloads or compromised
websites since Trojans can't replicate
like viruses they are easier to detect
and
remove however they can still cause
considerable damage there there are
several types of Trojans including the
infamous Zeus troan which is a type of
malware that can be used to steal
banking information and emotet which is
responsible for spreading ransomware and
other types of malware but what exactly
makes viruses so different from
Trojans well a virus is a type of
malware that infects files or programs
computer systems it can even spread to
other computers through network
connections email or infected files
unlike Trojans which need be physically
installed by a user a computer virus can
replicate and spread itself rapidly once
it has infected your
machine a virus can be delivered through
email attachments infected software
downloads or malicious websites once
your system becomes infected virus can
cause considerable damage such as
deleting or corrupting files slowing
down system performance or stealing
personal
information viruses are often more
difficult to detect and remove as they
can hide in system files and and
continue to spread to other devices one
virus that spread through email
attachments and caused significant
disruption in 1999 was the Melissa virus
it used a macro to hijack users
Microsoft Outlook and then sent emails
to the first 50 addresses in their
mailing lists numerous email servers at
corporations and government agencies
worldwide became
overloaded some even had to be shut down
entirely thankfully within a few days
cyber Security Experts succeeded in
containing the spread and restored the
functionality of their networks so you
have now covered troan and viruses but
where do worms fit in unlike viruses and
troan worms don't have to attach
themselves to a program or file to
infect your system instead they can take
advantage of vulnerabilities in your
operating system and spread from
computer to computer causing
considerable damage to your system and
network however just like troan worms
can create back doors to your system
allowing attackers to gain unauthorized
access or launch other types of attacks
thankfully there are measures you can
take to protect your systems and
networks against worms including making
sure your operating system and antivirus
software is kept up to date and don't
forget to run regular scans be cautious
when opening email attachments or
downloads don't open them unless you are
certain they are safe you should also
avoid suspicious websites especially
those that offer free downloads Addle
content or pirated software try enabling
the pop-up Locker in your browser
this blocks unwanted popups which can
contain troan or viruses and finally
keep yourself up to date with the latest
information stay knowledgeable on the
latest threats and educate yourself on
how to protect your device from troan
and viruses Well Done You Now understand
that protecting your device against
these threats is of vital importance in
this video you completed an examination
of the various types of malware
including troan viruses and worms you
learned how they spread through your
system systems and networks and explored
the differences between them you also
discovered the impact malware can have
before finally learning some valuable
and important steps you can take to help
protect your systems and network it's
important to note that while there are
clear differences between troan and
viruses some malware can exhibit
characteristics of both you'll dive
deeper into cyber attacks and protecting
your computer in upcoming lessons so
keep learning and soon you'll be
prepared for every
eventuality imagine walking through
Forest on a warm summer's day while
enjoying the scenery and taking in the
fresh air you decide to take a break at
the base of a tree suddenly a mosquito
takes a ly to your arm and you're left
with an annoying itch that won't go away
threat actors are the mosquitoes of
cyber security just like a mosquito
injects you with its saliva thread
actors like hackers use malicious code
to deliver viruses to their victims
thread actors represent human beings who
use different entry points to gain
unauthorized access to computer systems
these entry points known as threat
vectors include malicious URLs USB
storage with malware and fishing emails
in this video you'll gain an
understanding of threat vectors their
various types and how hackers use them
to gain access to systems and sensitive
information this knowledge not only
helps you spot insecurities in your
organization but also helps you ensure
that you stay alert to take the steps
necessary to safeguard your valuable
network data and
systems let's begin by defining exact
what is meant by the terms threat
landscape threat actor and Threat Vector
in an earlier lesson you discovered that
a threat landscape is an organization's
overall cyber security environment it
includes all the potential risks and
threats attackers use to manipulate an
organization's Network or computer
system a threat actor is the individual
or group that engages a malicious
activity that compromises the security
of computer systems networks or other
digital
assets thread actors can range from
amateur hackers to sophisticated
criminal organizations nation states and
even insiders with authorized access to
sensitive information threat actors use
a Threat Vector to gain unauthorized
access to your system so a Threat Vector
is the entry point for attackers to gain
access to a system or organization now
that you know the leading terms let's
explore some of today's most common
threat vectors were you aware that one
of the leading causes of data breaches
as poor user credentials that's right
attackers view weak credentials in the
same way mosquitoes View your blood
which makes them a major Threat Vector
in fact data breaches frequently occur
after credentials have been leaked and
made available to cyber criminals
another common Threat Vector is email
emails can be leveraged in various ways
so attackers can gain access to your
system for example emails with
attachments that contain malicious code
can lead to system infections or spear
fishing which targets specific
individuals or organizations using
personalized emails to increase the
likelihood of success another Threat
Vector relates to social media platforms
which have become increasingly popular
as threat vectors attackers create fake
profiles and then share malicious links
or message users to exploit them have
you heard of a watering hole attack this
is another primary Threat Vector that
involves malicious websites or downloads
this attack involves purposefully
injecting a website with malware that
employees of a specific organization are
known to visit
frequently these tactics compromise user
systems by exploiting vulnerabilities in
the organization's web browsers this
might surprise you but humans themselves
have become a primary threat Factor
through social engineering cyber
criminals taking advantage of human
error use tactics like deception to
steal sensitive data another Threat
Vector is weekly configured Wi-Fi
routers this allows cyber criminals to
gain unauthorized access to your network
or removable media such as infected USB
drives can be a hardware threat Factor
spreading mware to computer when
connected if attacker gain physical
access to your computer system they can
attach malicious USB devices like
Hardware Key loggers to record your
keystrokes supply chain attacks in which
cyber criminals compromise a trusted
vendor's software or Hardware can have
far-reaching
consequences they install malware in
software supplied by a vendor and once
that software is installed by an
organization the malware enters the
network and starts spreading zero day
vulnerabilities refers to previously
unknown flaws in software or Hardware
which can be exploited by attackers
before developers have a chance to
release a patch making them particularly
dangerous another Threat Vector relates
to the Internet of Things devices such
as your smart home appliances and
wearables lack of adequate security
measures default passwords or poorly
configured systems can make them threat
vectors and finally mobile devices
including your cell phone or tablet
could be targeted through malicious apps
smishing known as SMS fishing or Vishing
also referred to as voice fishing and
exploitation of Bluetooth or Wi-Fi
vulnerabilities Well Done You Now
understand the growing threat that cyber
security faces as technology improves
the number of threat factors is
increasing which gives cyber criminals
an increasing number of opportunities to
compromise systems and networks in
upcoming lessons you will explore these
terms in Greater detail discovering how
cyber criminals use them throughout the
world today so keep learning
understanding these terms and threats
has become vital for developing a
comprehensive security strategy that
addresses is the entire threat landscape
of an
organization have you ever received an
email from a local restaurant
advertising their latest deals it's
pretty common right now let's imagine
you decide to check out the Restaurant's
menu by clicking on the attachment that
came with the email but nothing happens
frustrated you decide to go to the
restaurant's website instead however
unknown to you youve just put your
device at risk this scenario may seem
innocent enough but this is a common
tactic that cyber criminals use to
spread malware you might recall malware
is a type of malicious program that
infects your device and steals your your
personal information cyber criminals can
use malware to record your keyboard
activity encrypt your files or steal
your data holding it for ransom until
you pay for its return this is why it's
vital to stay up to date on malware so
in this video Let's examine malware in
further detail exploring the
considerable damage that it can cause
you'll also explore another method cyber
criminals use
ransomware let's begin with intentions
you might wonder why people would create
such malicious software like most crimes
they all have a similar motivation
Financial cyber criminals distribute
malware through infected computers with
the objective to obtain financial data
or login credentials collect information
that can be sold sell access to
Computing resources or extort payment
from victims to achieve this objective
cyber criminals use a variety of malware
you explored viruses troan and worms
earlier however malware is becoming more
sophisticated with its attacks and is
developing intelligent new malware that
uses new vulnerabilities and Pathways to
spread and evade detection firstly coin
miners which is also known as
cryptojacking malware is a type of
malicious software that uses your
computer's processing power to perform
coin mining coin mining is a complex
mathematical calculation that validates
transactions on a cryptocurrency network
the malware performs its functions and
then sends the cryptocurrency directly
to the attacker's wallet it achieves
this without the user ever knowing about
it this malware uses a significant
amount of processing power and causes
severe performance issues on the user's
computer next exploit kits are a
collection of exploits that take
advantage of vulnerabilities in your
system or software these malware kits
scan for vulnerabilities in your system
once detected they deploy additional
malware to further infect your device
these exploit kits often include Shell
Code which refers to code that starts a
command shell this is a small malware
payload that is used to download other
malware from attacker controlled
networks macros are a powerful method of
automating common tasks and improving
productivity within Microsoft Office
maybe you've heard of them before
however cyber criminals also use macro
malware functionality to infect your
device delivered via an email attachment
or zip file the macro works by hiding in
your Microsoft Office files the email
attachment uses names intended to entice
or scare you into opening them often
they can look like invoices receipts or
even legal documents next is rootkits
which cyber criminals use to hide
malware inside your device this allows
the malware to possibly remain
undetected for years allowing it to
steal your information and resources
rootkits can also intercept and change
standard operating system processes and
adjust system reports to evade detection
finally there's fileless malware which
is unique because it functions without
installing malware or other programs on
your computer's hard drive instead
fileless malware makes use of existing
programs or tools already installed on
your computer this method makes it
challenging for antivirus software to
locate it so you have now explored
malware in further detail however where
does ransomware fit in you might recall
that ransomware is a special type of
malware W that focuses on destroying or
encrypting your files in folders making
it impossible to access them a
ransomware attack occurs when a cyber
criminal achieves unauthorized access to
your network installing the ransomware
in a location with sensitive data or
business critical systems the attacker
executes the ransomware Locking you out
of all your files this leaves the files
inaccessible until you pay a ransom The
Ransom is usually demanded in
cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin because
the owner of a cryptocurrency wallet is
untraceable sometimes attacker also
steal sensitive Data before deploying
the actual ransomware in what is known
as a double extortion ransomware attack
several high-profile ransomware
incidents have involved organizations
including Colonial pipeline JBS foods
and CA these ransomware attacks Drew
considerable public attention and
Illustrated the extent of the threat and
the significance as well as the
multi-million dollar consequences of
ransomware attacks Microsoft data shows
that the energy sector is one of the
most targeted sectors for ransomware as
well as the financial Healthcare and
entertainment Industries you now have a
greater understanding of malware and
ransomware and recognize the threat they
pose in this video you examined the
various types of malware including coin
miners root kits exploit kits and
ransomware discovering how they work and
the considerable damage they cause you
learned how threat actors use these
tools to infect and steal your
information you then dived into
ransomware and learned that thread
actors use ransomware to extort money
from individuals and organizations
remember it's vital to stay up to date
on the dangers that malware cause so
continue to educate yourself to help
prevent them in the future imagine
receiving a phone call from someone
claiming to be your bank or a trusted
company asking for sensitive information
like your credit card details it may
seem innocent enough to provide this
information but unfortunately it could
lead to devastating consequences like
identity theft or financial loss which
is a reality many individuals across the
globe have had to face the truth is this
scenario is all too common and it's not
not just limited to phone calls cyber
criminals are using social engineering
tactics to manipulate and deceive people
into giving away confidential
information like their financial details
this is why it's vital you understand
what social engineering and fishing is
and the impact they can have so that you
are equipped to protect yourself against
them therefore in this video you'll
complete an examination of fishing and
social engineering discovering what they
are and the various techniques cyber
criminals use before exploring several
prevention methods let's get started
with social engineering and fishing
as previously explained cyber criminals
use social engineering to manipulate
people into performing actions that
aren't in their best interest just like
in the earlier scenario but social
engineering can refer to a variety of
tactics that involve psychological
manipulation aimed at persuading
individuals to perform actions with
malicious intent cyber criminals
commonly employ these tactics to obtain
sensitive information from users either
for personal financial gain or to cause
harm to others fishing is an example of
social engineering that uses digital
media including email text messages or
voice calls as its method of attack with
the primary goal of manipulating users
into downloading and installing malware
divulging critical financial information
like one-time passwords or otps or
gaining control over the victim's online
accounts for example you might receive a
fishing email that looks like it's from
a legitimate Source like a bank that
tricks you into clicking on a link to
verify your account information in
reality the link directs you to a fake
website designed to steal your login
credentials You Now understand what
fishing and social engineering are so
let's explore some techniques cyber
criminals
use fishing and social engineering
techniques come in several forms each
designed to exploit human
vulnerabilities you discovered earlier
that Watering Hole attacks Target
people's specific industries by
installing malware on websites
frequently visited by industry
professionals and redirecting them to
malicious websites without their
knowledge however Watering Hole attacks
are the tip of the iceberg regarding
social engineering attacks there are
several other techniques cyber criminals
use to exploit vulnerable people and
extract sensitive information one is
pretexting where cyber criminals
impersonate someone else to gain trust
and extract information from their
target or baiting where cyber criminals
lure victims with a seemingly genuine
offer that entices them to disclose
personal details or download malware
next is quid proquo which involves cyber
criminals offering something in return
for personal information and lastly
tailgating refers to cyber criminals
gaining unauthorized access to
restricted areas by following an
authorized individual social engineering
is a powerful tool used by cyber
criminals and fishing is one of its most
common techniques fishing attacks come
in various forms such as spear fishing
which targets specific individuals using
personalized information to appear more
credible or clone fishing which
duplicates a legitimate email and
modifies its content to include
malicious links or attachments next is
Wailing which targets high ranking
individuals within an organization such
as Executives or board members by
carefully crafting messages that will
appear to come from a trusted source
and finally smishing or Vishing where
cyber criminals trick their victims
using text messages and voice calls
you'll explore these techniques in
further detail later in the lesson these
techniques demonstrate the dangers that
fishing and social engineering pose to
cyber security protecting yourself from
them requires constant vigilance and a
proactive approach but thankfully there
are measures you can take to reduce the
risk of falling victim to these attacks
the first step is to educate yourself
and your team about the various
techniques and warning signs used by
cyber criminals regular training and
awareness sessions can foster a security
conscious culture within an organization
it's vital to verify the identity of
anyone requesting sensitive information
particularly if the request is
unexpected or unsolicited whenever in
doubt contact the person or organization
directly using a known trusted method of
communication you should also exercise
caution when you encounter links and
attachments ensuring you avoid any
received from unknown or suspicious
sources by hovering over links you can
reveal the true destination before
clicking ensure you scan attachments
with an antivirus irus program before
opening them and finally keep your
software operating systems and Antivirus
programs up to date this is essential
for defending against known
vulnerabilities and modern threats so
that's it you now know how cyber
criminals use fishing and social
engineering to Access Financial and
sensitive information you also
discovered in this video that by
remaining Vigilant and adopting best
practices you can significantly reduce
the risk of falling victim to these
attacks remember cyber security is an
ongoing process demanding continuous
attention and adaptation to stay ahead
of cyber criminals and the threats they
pose you'll delve further into these
topics in upcoming lessons so keep up
the great work in 2022 the FBI's
internet crime records registered over
800,000 reports of cyber crime
statistics show over 422 million
individuals were impacted plus an
estimated nearly 33 billion accounts
will be breached this year the cost of
these breaches is predicted to be at 8
trillion so it may not be a surprise
that hacking has become big business the
stereotypical image of a loone owner who
is living in a basement is just not true
anymore they've shaken off their
reputations and rebranded themselves
around the world as Internet tribes and
organizations some even have codes of
conduct and goals this basement hacker
stereotype is damaging it gives
organizations a false sense of
superiority over these threat actors
whom they perceive as untrained
individuals when they are in fact highly
skilled and organized groups groups such
as Anonymous have caused hav can
continually make news worldwide to
possess this hacking skill you need an
understanding of society and people
so they are no longer the typical hacker
that one might imagine they are united
by their skills and perform everything
from pranks to financial crimes and even
Espionage these groups are also known
for sharing their exploits on various
internet forums but not everything is
always so clear-cut within all of these
hacking groups meet Tony he's working
with a team of hackers in Philadelphia
and as a group they are attempting to
hack into a multinational corporation
cyber defenses the corporation has a new
software application that customers use
to make Financial payments the hacking
group continually probes for weaknesses
within the company's Advanced software
after several weeks of probing the team
has had success and locates some
vulnerabilities using their highly
trained skills they hack into the
corporation's Network accessing private
user data but Everything Is Not What It
Seems this hacking team are the good
guys they've been hired by the
corporation and are working with their
permission to find potential weaknesses
in their software throughout their
hacking Tony and the team have developed
state-of-the-art cybercity software for
the company Tony is what's known as a
white hat or ethical hacker they
collaborate with companies and
governments to help organizations
improve their cyber security groups and
individuals like Tony and his team are
on the rise worldwide and continue to be
in hdes man through collaborations like
Tony's Cyber Technology Group and
numerous companies manufacturers and
governments cyber Security Professionals
are starting to fight back against cyber
criminals changing the game on how cyber
security is being dealt
with imagine you were shopping at a
local mall and decide to unwind at a
cafe conveniently the cafe offers free
public Wi-Fi allowing you to check your
emails and browse social media unbeknown
to you a cyber criminal is also using
that public Wi-Fi when you connect to
the Wi-Fi the hacker employs a technique
called man-in-the-middle or mitm to
intercept any data being sent between
your device and the network you decide
to check the balance of your bank
account thus giving the hacker access to
your login details later on that day
someone gains access to your account and
withdraws funds leaving you with a
compromised account and a loss of funds
from a public Wi-Fi network hackers can
even introduce mware into your device
which can lead to more harm this
technique is commonly employed by cyber
criminals all around the world which
emphasizes how crucial it is to master
the techniques that can stop these
occurrences in this video you'll explore
personal mitigation strategies
discovering how to stay safe and keep
your data and devices secured from any
potential cyber crimes let's begin with
virtual private networks or
vpns a VPN is a method used for creating
a secure connection between two Networks
when using an unsecured Network like in
the earlier scenario a VPN encrypts your
internet connection and passes the data
through a secure server protecting your
data from interception and E dropping by
using a VPN you can browse the web
privately and securely even on public
Wi-Fi networks while public Wi-Fi
networks are convenient they are
unsecured and can be easily exploited by
cyber criminals where possible avoid
using them for sensitive tasks like
online banking or accessing personal
accounts if you must use public Wi-Fi
always use a VPN to keep your connection
secure and protect your data you should
also create strong and unique passwords
for all your accounts and incorporate
uppercase and lowercase letters numbers
and symbols avoid using simple words
phrases or patterns and enable
multiactor authentication or MFA on all
accounts that support it to add an extra
layer of security MFA works by requiring
a second form of verification such as a
text message or an authenticator app in
addition to your password avoiding
softare Ware downloads from unauthorized
or pirated sources is another mitigation
strategy pirated software can install
malware programs on your device creating
additional security risks always make
sure you download software from
reputable sources such as the
developer's website or official app
stores and keep your software up to date
with the latest security patches you
should also avoid having any private
information or passwords on websites or
in plain site such as in a file on your
computer or written down instead use a
secure password manager to to store your
sensitive information and always double
check the website's URL and security
certificate before entering your credit
card
details now you already know that cyber
criminals use fishing attacks with
malicious links to trick you into
revealing sensitive information or
downloading malicious
malware by checking the destination URL
and such links you can ensure it's from
a legitimate Source if in doubt just
navigate to the website directly by
typing the URL into your browser
remember even though they appear as
legitimate sources fishing ATT tax use
emails social media messages and text
messages to trick you into revealing
sensitive information be cautious when
clicking on links or downloading
attachments and verify the sender's
identity before acting if in doubt
contact the sender directly using a
known contact method one of the best
mitigation strategies you can Implement
is to install a reliable antivirus and
firewall maybe you already have one
installed in your own device a good
antivirus program can detect malware and
remove it before causing any damage
which helps to protect your device from
cyber threat
additionally a firewall helps protect
your devices by monitoring incoming and
outgoing Network traffic and blocking
unauthorized access so it's vital to
install a reputable antivirus program
and enable your devices built-in
firewall to take your security to the
maximum and finally remember to keep
yourself up to date on the latest cyber
security threats and best practices to
protect your Digital Life follow
reputable sources on social media attend
webinars or enroll in training courses
to enhance your knowledge and stay
vigilant against potential threats great
you have now discovered some effective
strategies for protecting your devices
against cyber crime these strategies
play a vital role in protecting your
Digital Life from cyber threats in this
video you explored personal mitigation
strategies and several methods for
protecting yourself by understanding and
implementing these measures you not only
enhance your cybercity knowledge but
also create a safer digital environment
for yourself and others remember staying
proactive and informed is the key to
staying secure in the ever evolving
world of cyber security
imagine working from home and receiving
a confidential financial report via
email while in your home office as this
data is quite sensitive an ordinary
email attachment just won't cut it it's
vital that even if cyber criminals
compromise the email account the
document remains private and secure to
achieve this you encrypt the file so
that only the intended recipient can
download and decrypt it thankfully there
are several security software Solutions
available that can help you encrypt your
files for Safe digital transmission and
just like encryption software there's a
range of additional programs and tools
that you should use on a regular basis
to safeguard your online security and
privacy therefore in this video you'll
explore several types of security
software learning how they Safeguard
your personal information and keep your
online activities protected from
potential threats it's common in today's
world to have dozens of passwords for
numerous accounts or websites
remembering them all has become an
impossible task while it's easy to reuse
a password across multiple websites or
resort to writing them down both pose a
security risk this is why password
managers have become a very useful tool
for generating and saving complex and
unique passwords for all your
logins password managers encrypt and
store your passwords and login
information in one place some of them
can even automatically log you into
websites and apps so you never have to
manually enter your credentials again
there are several password manager
applications you can use including last
pass one password and bit Warden most of
these password managers even support a
secondary authentication layer like
onetime pin or OTP which adds additional
protection while password managers are
useful and create very secure passwords
it's also beneficial that you understand
how to create a secure password yourself
but you might ask yourself what are the
characteristics of a strong and secure
password well a strong password is one
that is unique and complex it's a
password that uses 12 or more characters
has a combination of upper and lowercase
letters and a combination of numbers and
symbols also it shouldn't be a word that
can be found in a dictionary or the name
of a person character product or
organization if you want to use a word
or phrase you'll remember misspell it or
include numbers or letters for example a
complicated password is stronger than a
simple password like three birds make it
different from your other passwords do
not include your name a family member's
name or a pet's name they are too easy
to guess it should not include phone
number numbers birthdays addresses or
social security
numbers also avoid using popular
passwords like 1 123 or
password and finally ensure you update
your passwords regularly cyber Security
Experts recommend creating a new
password every 3 months you previously
learned that anti- malware tools can
detect and remove malware from your
system and they always monitor your
files for any new malware similarly
firewall applications can filter
incoming or outgoing traffic from your
computer installing these programs on
your computer has become vital in this
modern digital age thankfully most
operating systems already have built-in
firewall tools so you don't even need to
purchase anything
extra recent versions of the Windows
operating systems come with Windows
security which is a free solution with
an integrated antivirus called Microsoft
Defender which includes antimalware a
highly capable firewall and other
browser and device protection
features you also have the option to
bump up your security with two-factor
authentication you already know that two
Factor authentication can protect your
online accounts by adding an extra
security layer there are several
applications that offer two-factor
authentication including Microsoft
authenticator Google Authenticator and
aie they generate time-based onetime
passwords or OTP for multiactor
authentication on top of all these
options you also have personal
encryption tools like gpg or gnu privacy
guard and pretty good privacy or as it's
known
pgp these help protect sensitive
information by encrypting files and
messages ensuring only authorized
recipients can access them these tools
use public key cryptography to enable
secure communication and file sharing
applications like Microsoft bit locker
and Macos file Vault provide full dis
encryption scrambling your entire hard
drive and all its contents even if lost
stolen or confiscated an unauthorized
individual cannot access your data
without the proper password or
key you will explore encryption and
cryptography later in the
course well done as you discovered by
combining security software and
implementing effective mitigation
strategies you can significantly improve
the security of your personal devices
and online accounts understanding these
applications and software has become
vital not just for budding cyber
Security Professionals like yourself but
for individuals All Around the World in
this video you explored the security
software available for these topics
learning how they protect your data and
keep you safe and secure while
navigating the worldwide
web well done you've now reached the end
of this introductory week about threat
factors and mitigation at this point you
have a solid understanding of cyber
attacks and how they can occur the
various methods that cyber criminals use
to commit these attacks real world
examples of various cyber crimes that
have taken place and the software and
strategies you can use to mitigate these
attacks it's now time to take the module
quiz but before doing so let's recap
what you've learned so far at the
beginning of the week you were brought
through the course introdu in syllabus
learning how you can gain the most from
the course and then sharing what you
hope to learn with your peers then you
began your Learning Journey by exploring
cyber attacks discovering that a Cyber
attack is a malicious attempt made by
cyber criminals to interrupt cause
damage or gain unauthorized access to
your computer system or network you
discovered the purpose of these attacks
their impact as well as several methods
cyber criminals use do you remember what
these methods were they include malware
ransomware fishing and social
engineering at this stage you have
learned about some notable cyber attacks
that occurred throughout history you
took a deep dive into the W to cry
ransomware discovering how it affected
thousands of computers across 150
countries causing billions of dollars in
damage you also learned how the stuck
snet worm targeted Iran's nuclear
program manipulating the centrifuges
causing them to malfunction and
eventually break down while ransomware
and worms can be considerably impactful
atran can also be dangerous if you
recall atran is a special type of Mal
malware that disguises itself as a
legitimate file or piece of software
following this you discovered that a
threat landscape is an organization's
overall cyber security environment while
a threat actor is an individual or group
that engages in malicious activity that
compromises the security of computer
systems meaning a Threat Vector is an
entry point for attackers to gain access
to a system or
organization next you delved into some
common threat vectors including poor
credentials email routers or iot devices
you might recall some of the various
types of malware including coin miners
which uses your computer's processing
power to perform coin mining or how
exploit kits are a collection of
exploits that take advantage of
vulnerabilities in your system or
software you followed this by exploring
malware discovering how malware Works
including detection and removal you
examined some Advanced methods that
cyber criminals use to evade detection
such as metamorphic malware which change
its code while keeping its base
functionality the same you also learned
how a polymorphic malware is like a
chameleon encrypting its malicious code
once it infects a system polymorphic
malware does this by generating a new
encryption mechanism with each infection
changing its code constantly to match
its environment you also discovered that
fishing is an example of social
engineering which manipulates you into
performing actions that aren't in your
best interest and you should now be
familiar with some common fishing and
social engineering techniques that are
used by cyber criminals
you gained insight into measures you can
take to reduce the risk of falling
victim to these attacks which involves
educating yourself and verifying the
identity of anyone who contacts you for
example an email from an unknown source
you also completed an examination of
threat vectors and should be able to
explain amongst others Insider attacks
Hardware based attacks and typo
squatting in the final part of this week
you delved into mitigation strategies
exploring Biometrics and various
biometric security systems available You
Now understand that biometric systems
enhance accountability by providing a
clear and accurate audit trail of access
to sensitive areas or data however
there's concern that Biometrics is
vulnerable to cyber attacks and data
breaches because biometric data is
stored in centralized databases or on
individual devices Additionally you are
now well versed in the security software
options that are available to help you
encrypt your files or an entire hard
drive including password managers that
generate unique and complex passwords
for each login you also know that
malware tools detect remove malware from
your system and monitors your files for
malware but firewall applications can
also filter suspicious
traffic the Windows operating system
comes with Windows security which
includes an antivirus called Microsoft
Defender it also includes antimalware
which is a highly capable firewall
before completing your Learning Journey
you explore data loss discovering
several ways in which your data can be
corrupted or destroyed including malware
ransomware or Hardware failures and
understand that one of the best soltion
solutions to avoid data loss is through
data backups which are completed in
various ways including full backup which
backs up all your data but it's timec
consuming or incremental backup which
only backs data that has been updated or
changed through understanding data loss
you learn strategies that help you
retrieve lost or deleted data including
checking the computer recycle bin or
using backup copies making use of file
history or time machine applications you
can also use recovery software and
lastly you could use a professional data
recovery service to enhance your
knowledge further this week you also
completed several in video questions
knowledge checks discussion prompts and
examined several real world examples on
the topics you covered you might now
have a good idea about what items you'd
like to revisit to refresh your memory
before you take the module quiz on
threats and attacks over the next week
you will expand your knowledge of threat
vectors and mitigation by diving into
cryptography starting with encryption
best of luck have you ever sent a
private message to a friend using a
secret code that only the two of you you
knew maybe you created unique symbols
for each letter of the alphabet making a
key that can be used to write and
decipher coded messages that only those
with the key can read them or perhaps
you had a secret handshake or a sign to
Signal something that only you and your
friend would understand encryption Works
in a similar way it's the process of
encoding a message or data so that only
authorized parties with the right key
can access it in this video you'll be
introduced to encryption and learn about
some of the fascinating techniques used
to protect data and cure communication
encryption is an essential tool in
modern-day communication and helps
protect sensitive information from being
intercepted and read by unauthorized
parties encryption has a long history
and has evolved over time from simple
techniques like the Caesar Cipher to the
complex algorithms used today the Caesar
Cipher is one of the oldest and simplest
encryption techniques it was named after
Julius Caesar who used this technique to
communicate with his generals the Caesar
Cipher involves shifting each letter in
the message by a certain number of
spaces down the alphabet which is also
known as character
substitution for example if the key was
three then a would become D B would
become e and so on the Caesar Cipher
technique is simple to implement but is
not secure as the key can be guessed and
the message can be decrypted quite
easily in the modern day encryption is
much more complex and there are many
different types of encryption techniques
used to protect data and
communication one such technique is
symmetric encryption which uses a shared
secret key to encrypt and decrypt data
much like using a shared secret code to
send a message to your friend but modern
encryption keys are a lot more complex
and much less predictable than
traditional character substitution
techniques symmetric encryption is often
used in situations where two parties
need to communicate securely and have
agreed on a shared key beforehand the
same key that encrypts the data is used
to decrypt it making symmetric
encryption ideal for bulk data
encryption and secure communication
within closed
systems another type of encryption is
asymmetric encryption unlike symmetric
encryption which relies on a single
shared key for encryption and decryption
asymmetric encryption uses a pair of
keys this pair consists of a public key
and a private key the public key is
responsible for encrypting the message
and can be shared with anyone while the
private key is responsible for
decryption and must be kept secret
asymmetric encryption uses end-to-end
encryption to protect the
confidentiality and privacy of the users
Communications and to authenticate
users many other types of encryption
techniques are also used in modern-day
cryptography
such as hash functions digital
signatures and key exchange protocols
these techniques are used to protect
data and Communications in a variety of
different scenarios from securing online
banking transactions to protecting
military Communications you'll explore
more about encryption techniques later
but they essentially all boil down to a
more complex series of numbers and
calculations to encrypt data in the ends
no encryption is unbreakable given
enough time and resources however the
aim of encryption is to make it so
difficult and time consuming to break
that the encrypted data is no longer
relevant by the time it's
decrypted encryption is an important
tool for protecting data and
communication and it has a long and
fascinating
history from the simple Caesar Cipher to
the complex algorithms used today
encryption has evolved over time to play
an essential role in protecting data in
Industries such as Finance healthc care
and government where sensitive
information must be kept confidential
without encryption the online world
would be less secure and the positive
information shared by individuals would
be more vulnerable to interception and
theft by now you understand that
encryption is an essential tool for
safeguarding sensitive information when
transacting and communicating online
you've learned quite a bit about some of
the most widely used encryption methods
like AES and RSA but with so many
different encryption options available
how do you know which encryption
technology to use to protect your
data not all encryption techniques are
equal and understanding the strengths
and weaknesses of different modern
encryption methods is crucial in
choosing the right technology to provide
the best security for your specific
needs that's why in this video you'll
delve deeper and explore the strengths
and weaknesses of modern encryption
Technologies and discover Key Management
best practices to begin let's reflect on
what you've learned about AES and RSA
AES is a symmetric encryption algorithm
that ensures high levels of security by
encrypting data into fix size blocks in
this method each block is encrypted with
a secret key that is shared only between
between the sender and the receiver RSA
on the other hand uses two keys a public
key and a private key and can be used to
communicate securely between multiple
parties without the need to share a
secret key in addition to AES and RSA is
another popular encryption technique
called elliptical curve cryptography or
ECC ECC is a type of public key
encryption that is based on the
mathematical theory of elliptical curves
and uses smaller faster and more
efficient Keys instead of multiplying
large prime numbers like traditional
methods ECC uses an elliptical curve
equation to link two separate keys to
encrypt and decrypt
data one is a public key and the other
is private this approach offers a higher
level of security because the private
key cannot be derived from the public
key ECC is an alternative to the RSA
cryptographic algorithm and is widely
used in cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin
and ethereum and because it is so
efficient it works well for wireless
communication and The Internet of Things
the methods used in encryption are
designed to be highly secure making it
difficult for anyone to break them
Advanced encryption algorithms like AES
are particularly strong and can withand
Brute Force attacks that attempt to
decode the encryption key however no
encryption technique is 100% foolproof
which is why it's also important to
understand their limitations and
weaknesses for example managing the
shared key in AES can be challenging
when multiple parties are involved rsa's
complexity can slow down the encryption
process and while ECC offers a higher
level of security its complexity makes
it vulnerable to implementation errors
these issues can impact the overall
security of your data and it's crucial
to address them by implementing
effective key management practices key
management practices involve procedures
for generating Distributing storing and
revoking encryption keys and ensures
that only authorized parties have access
to them this is essential for
maintaining the confidentiality and
integrity of encrypted data one of the
most popular key management practices is
the use of key exchanges key exchanges
allow for the secure distribution of
encryption Keys between parties without
the need to share the key itself a
popular key exchange protocol is the
Diffy Helman protocol which allows two
parties to independently generate shared
secret keys without actually sharing the
key itself this protocol is commonly
used in Secure Communications and
e-commerce transactions when it comes to
choosing the right encryption technology
various factors such as the level of
security required the size of the data
and the number of parties involved need
to be taken into account symmetric
encryption methods like AES provide fast
and efficient encryption while
asymmetric encryption methods like Orsa
and ECC offer more versatility and
security for multiple
parties from uncovering the captivating
history of encryption and delving into
the intricate tools that uphold modern
data security you've come a long way to
learn about the role of cryptography in
data
security in this video you'll Zone in on
private keys and learn about how they
are formed used and stored securely you
will also touch on different private key
encryption algorithms like AES and
Blowfish uncovering their unique
strengths and the key management
challenges that come with them private
key encryption also known as symmetric
key encryption is a fundamental Concept
in cryptography that involves using the
same key to both encrypt and decrypt
data but how are these Keys created
private keys are created by generating a
sequence of bits or ones and zeros that
serve as the key itself once generated
the private key is used to to encrypt
the data and only the same private key
can decrypt the encrypted data it is
crucial to keep the private key secure
to prevent unauthorized access to the
protected information as you may recall
the advanced encryption standard or AES
is a widely used symmetric key
encryption algorithm it operates as
block Cipher dividing data into fix size
blocks of 128 bits the encryption
process involves applying a series of
mathematical operations known as rounds
to the input data the number of rounds
depends on the key size for instance 10
rounds for 128 bit Keys 12 rounds for
192 bit keys and 14 rounds for 256 big
Keys a larger key size generally
provides greater security making it
harder for cyber criminals to crack the
code however it's essential to note that
the larger key sizes may result in
slower encryption and decryption times
it's a trade-off between security and
performance AES operates in various
modes each with its unique
characteristics and strengths let's
explore a few examples electronic code
book or ECB is the simplest and most
straightforward mode in this mode data
is divided into blocks and each block is
encrypted
independently however this Simplicity
comes with the downfall ECB can be
vulnerable to certain attacks making it
the least secure option on the other
hand Cipher blockchaining or CBC
encrypts each block of data using the
previous block Cipher text creating a
chain of interconnected blocks this
creates an extra layer of protection
making it more secure and commonly used
in situations where confidentiality is
very important now that you've explored
the different modes of as encryption
let's shift your focus to another
prominent symmetric key encryption
algorithm Blowfish Blowfish is a
symmetric key encryption algorithm
designed by Bruce schneer in
1993 just like AES Blowfish is a block
Cipher that operates in both ECB and CBC
modes but it offers a few unique
features that set it apart one standout
feature of blowfish is its flexible key
size with Blowfish you can use variable
length Keys ranging between 32 and 448
bits making it a more efficient solution
for scenarios that require Swift
encryption and
decryption while Blowfish is ideal for
fast encryption it's important to note
that alternative methods like AES may be
more suitable in situations where a high
level of security is required now let's
delve into the crucial aspect of Key
Management in private key encryption key
management plays a vital role in
maintaining the security of private key
encryption
since the same key is used to encrypt
and decrypt data safeguarding the key is
essential to prevent unauthorized access
to encrypted data one solution to
address the key management challenges is
the use of Hardware security modules
Hardware security modules are physical
devices specifically designed to provide
secure key storage and cryptographic
operations their temper resistant
properties make them resilient to
physical attacks such as drilling
cutting or
heating Hardware security modules are
commonly used in Industries such as
Finance health care and government where
the security of cryptographic keys is of
utmost
importance another option for storing
private Keys is to use encrypted key
storage Services these services use
encryption to protect Keys stored on
their servers while access to the keys
is typically protected by multiactor
authentication and other security
measures it is also crucial to establish
secure backup and storage mechanisms for
private Keys regularly backing up Keys
helps mitigate the risk of key loss in
the event of Hardware failure other
unforeseen
disasters however it is equally
important to store the backup securely
to prevent unauthorized access that
wraps up your exploration of private key
encryption from the powerful algorithms
like AES that provide robust security to
Blowfish that excels in speed and
flexibility understanding both and the
best practices for Key Management is
essential for ensuring robust data
security you've become well-versed in
the world of private key encryption
understanding its inner workings and
significance in safeguarding data
however there's another vital piece of
the puzzle public keys so let's dive
deeper into their role imagine you have
a top secret letter destined for your
friends Eyes Only to keep it safe from
prying eyes you put the letter inside a
special lock boox that only you and your
friend have the keys to what if someone
tries to steal the lock box and the keys
while it's being delivered to prevent
this from happening you add an extra
layer for protection you use a unique
lock equipped with two keys a public key
and a private key the public key is
shared between you and your friend while
the private key is exclusively held by
your friend you lock the box with the
public key only your friend possessing
the private key can unlock and read the
letter within even if someone manages to
get their hands on the box and the
public key they won't be able to unlock
it without the private key in this video
you'll explore the significance of
public keys and explore how they
synergize with asymmetric key encryption
algorithms like RSA Diffy Helman and ECC
to bolster cryptographic systems let's
start by refreshing your your memory on
what public key encryption is public key
encryption also known as asymmetric key
encryption is a technique that uses a
pair of keys one public and one private
to encrypt and decrypt data the public
key can be freely shared while the
private key is kept secret when a sender
wants to send a message to a receiver
the sender uses the receiver's public
key to encrypt the message the receiver
then uses their private key to decrypt
the message public key encryption is
used for secure communication over
unsecured Networks such as the
internet there are different types of
asymmetric key encryption algorithms
such as RSA Diffy halman and ECC as you
may recall RSA is a public key
encryption algorithm widely used for
secure communication and data
transmission over networks the RSA
algorithm is based on the mathematical
properties of prime numbers generating
two large prime numbers p and Q and
calculating their product the resulting
number is used as the modulus for the
encryption and decryption process the
term mod modulus or modulo may be a new
one it's a mathematical term used to
describe the remainder after a division
is carried out for example if you divide
10 by 3 there is one left over this is
the modulo
value so to decrypt the message using
RSA the receiver uses the private modulo
as part of an equation that allows the
message to be divided by their private
key to obtain the original message don't
worry if this sounds complicated for now
all you need to know is that the RSA
uses prime numbers to generate
encryption and decryption Keys you'll
learn more about the key generation
process later the RSA encryption process
involves key generation message
encryption and message transmission and
RSA offers several advantages including
security scalability and
efficiency however it also comes with
challenges related to Key Management and
performance now let's shift your focus
to the Diffy Helman algorithm the Diffy
Helman algorithm is a key exchange
algorithm used to establish a shared
secret between two parties over an
unsecure Communication channel it is
used for sharing the keys for symmetric
encryption the Diffy halman key exchange
process involves key generation key
exchange shared secret generation and
encryption and
decryption the algorithm offers benefits
such as security scalability and
efficiency however it is important to be
aware of potential vulnerabilities such
as man-in-the-middle attacks and
challenges related to key distribution
finally let's discuss ECC the itical
curve cryptography algorithm you may
recall that ECC is a public key
encryption algorithm that uses
elliptical curves over specific fields
to perform cryptographic operations the
ECC encryption process involves key
generation and message
encryption ECC brings advantages such as
enhanced security smaller key sizes and
faster computation however like any
algorithm it also has its share of
challenges including key management and
patent issues exploring the different
asymmetric algorithms in this video has
provided provided you with valuable
insights into the methods behind public
key encryption you've learned that
algorithms like Orsa Diffy Helman
analytical curve cryptography have
different capabilities providing
security scalability and efficiency but
they also face certain challenges like
key management and distribution and
performance and patent issues by
understanding these asymmetric key
encryption algorithms organizations can
make informed decisions about the most
suitable approach for their specific
needs as you continue to explore
encryption and data security remember
the critical role public key encryption
and its algorithms play in safeguarding
digital
Communications have you ever wondered
what happens when you enter your
password in something like your banking
app social media or
email how to service providers securely
match the password you provide with the
one you initially signed up with and if
this information is saved somewhere like
a database how do they ensure that your
password remains out of the reach of
malicious actors well this is where
hashing comes into play a powerful
technique that transforms your password
into a string of characters that's
almost impossible to
decipher in this video you'll explore
hashing and its vital role in data
security you'll also be introduced to
different types of hashing algorithms
like md5 and sha 256 and discuss a
technique called salting that enhances
the security of hashes hashing is a
process that takes input like your
password or any other information and
turns it into a fix size string of btes
typically in the form of letters and
numbers this output is called a hash or
a digest and is unique for each input so
even a slight change in the input will
result in a completely different hash
this makes it extremely difficult to
reverse engineer the original input from
the hash making it a crucial technique
in data security so storing passwords as
hashes rather than plain text ensures
that even if the database is compromised
attackers cannot easily extract the
original passwords but hashing is not
limited to password storage it also
plays a crucial role in ensuring data
integrity and enabling digital
signatures for data integrity hashing
helps verify the Integrity of files and
messages by allowing recipients to
confirm that the content has not been
tampered with during transmission hashes
are also used to create digital
signatures which can be used to
authenticate the sender and ensure the
Integrity of the transmitted data there
are different types of hashing
algorithms md5 is a widely used
algorithm that produces a 128bit hash
value but is no longer considered secure
for sensitive applications due to its
vulnerability to Collision attacks where
two different inputs produce the same
hash however can still be used for
non-critical tasks like generating
unique IDs or verifying the Integrity of
non-sensitive files during data transfer
it is widely adopted for its strong
security properties and performance
efficiency for instance sha 256 is
extensively used in applications such as
digital signatures password hashing and
blockchain
Technology when it comes to password
security hashing algorithms play a vital
role in protecting your sensitive data
but even these robust algorithms can be
vulnerable to certain types of attacks
such as brute force and dictionary
attacks so to bolster the security of
hash passwords a technique called
salting comes into play ass salt is a
randomly generated unique value that is
combined with your password before
hashing this technique guarantees that
even if you and another user share the
same password the respective hashes will
be different due to the distinct salts
this mitigates the risk of identifying
users with the same password by simply
comparing hashes making it harder for
attackers to exploit common or weak
passwords salts are stored in the
database alongside the hashes which is
crucial when you try to log into your
account so when you enter your password
the system retrieves the associated salt
which is then combined with the entered
password the resulting value is then
hashed and compared to the store at hash
if the newly generated hash matches the
one in the database you're granted
access this approach not only enhances
the security of hashes but also prevents
attackers from using pre-computed hash
tables such as rainbow tables to crack
passwords by by implementing unique
salts for each user the attacker's task
of matching hashes become significantly
more difficult and timec consuming as
they would have to recompute Hash tables
for each salt value so now you know
hashing is fundamental to ensure data
security and integrity it forms the
basis of many security systems with
algorithms like md5 and sha 256 being
widely used in various applications and
remember adding salt to the mix makes
data even more secure imagine if every
message every piece of information you
share online accessible to anyone who
desires it it sounds like a nightmare
doesn't it fortunately in an era where
life intertwines with technology lies a
powerful force that stops this from
becoming a reality it's a force that
holds the key to your privacy security
and the protection of your most valuable
information and by now you've become
quite familiar with it it's the
incredible power of encryption
encryption is like a vault protecting
your data from prying eyes it works by
transforming your messages and files
into a secret code rendering them
unreadable to anyone but the intended
recipient and it all starts with the
dynamic duo of symmetric and asymmetric
encryption symmetric encryption is like
locking valuable information in a secure
lock box using a secret key that is
shared between you and the recipient
while asymmetric encryption adds an
additional layer of security by using
two keys a public key to lock the box
and a private key to unlock it it's a
combination so potent that it ensures
only the intended recipients can unlock
and read the message meet Bailey she has
an idea for an invention
Bailey has spent a lot of time and
effort on her invention and is now ready
to apply for a patent but before that
she wants to share the design with an
old friend so she writes an email and
includes her design for a friend to see
unfortunately for Bailey she didn't use
an encrypted Communication channel and
her email was intercepted the hacker
gets her design and sells it to a nasty
character who then resells the design to
a multinational company and in turn
makes loads of money poor Bailey should
have encrypted that email in an era
filled with cyber threats and constant d
data Brees encryption stands as a
Fearless Guardian in the digital
landscape in fact a recent study found
that businesses that Implement strong
encryption are less likely to suffer
huge financial losses in the event of a
data breach they can save up to$ 1.4
million us for each attack to be exact
it's a staggering statistic highlighting
encryption's power and safeguarding
sensitive information encryption doesn't
discriminate it's for everyone from
individuals sharing personal messages to
multinational corporations safeguarding
Trade Secrets encryption is the unsung
hero that keeps the digital world
spinning securely so next time you send
a private message make an online
purchase or share sensitive information
remember the vital role encryption plays
it's the lock that keeps your Secret
Safe The Shield that defends your
privacy and the key that unlocks a world
of secure
communication when it comes to verifying
the authenticity of paper-based
documents like contracts essays or even
heartfelt letters a simple ink signature
serves as a trusted seal but what about
the files and documents you share online
how can you ensure the same level of
trust and integrity digital signing and
signatures provide a solution to ensure
trust and authenticity and over the next
few minutes you'll learn all about their
vital role you'll explore their use
cases and familiarize yourself with the
best practices for implementing them but
before you do let's start with what
digital signing is digital signing is
the process of using cryptographic
techniques such as RSA and
ecdsa to authenticate digital documents
or messages here's how it works when you
send a document a unique digital
fingerprint or hash of the document is
created which is then encrypted using
your private key to generate the digital
signature the recipient can then use
your public key to decrypt the signature
and verify the documents hash this
process ensures the document's
authenticity integrity and
non-repudiation and verifies your
identity now let's review the role
digital signing plays in various
Industries where secure communication
and document verification is essential
in online banking digital signing is
crucial in authenticating and securing
your transactions it protects sensitive
information such as your account numbers
and balances from fraud and identity
theft by ensuring that the communication
between you and the bank is secure and
genuine then when it comes to online
shopping digital signing is employed to
ensure the Integrity of electronic
invoices receipts and other
transactional documents protecting you
from counterfeit products or fraudulent
transactions it enhances the overall
experience and Trust in e-commerce
platforms digital signing is also
revolutionizing the way legal documents
are signed streamlining the process and
reducing the Reliance on paper based
documentation this not only saves time
and resources but also ensures the
authenticity and integrity of the signed
documents the healthcare industry is no
exception it is also experiencing a
transformative shift with the help of
digital
signing electronic health records and
prescriptions can now be authenticated
with digital signatures this ensures
patient privacy and data security and
improves efficiency when sharing
information between healthcare providers
finally government agencies widely adopt
digital signing for secure communication
and document verification this
technology has been crucial in improving
efficiency reducing the risk of Fraud
and enhancing overall Security in the
provision of Public
Services now that you've explored the
various applications of digital signing
let's delve into digital signatures
themselves digital signatures are the
unique string of characters generated
during the digital signing process they
are cre created using the sender's
private key and the signed data digital
signatures serve two primary functions
authenticity and integrity authenticity
means that the recipient can verify the
sender's Identity or in other words the
document really came from whom it claims
to be from and integrity means that the
recipient can check if the document has
been tampered with since it was signed
if a company deals with digitally signed
Services it likely involves handling and
verifying these digital signatures and
documents or messages this could include
making sure the signatures are valid and
that they match the corresponding public
key of the signer thereby ensuring the
document is authentic and unaltered now
that you have a foundational
understanding of digital signing and
signatures what are some best practices
for effectively utilizing this powerful
technology well the first step is to
stay informed of the latest developments
and best practices in digital signing
and digital signatures by staying up to
date you can adapt to new security
measures and advancements ensuring that
you use these Technologies effectively
and securely another important aspect is
choosing the right digital signature
software for your specific needs while
considering ease of use cost and
compatibility with your existing systems
it's also crucial to implement strong
security measures when using digital
signatures this means that you should
ensure that your private keys are
securely stored and that you have robust
security protocols to protect your
sensitive data and if you're working
within a team ensure that your peers are
well versed in a use and benefits of
digital signing and digital signatures
so they can effectively incorporate
these Technologies into their workflows
finally as digital signing and
signatures evolve it's essential to
consider how these Technologies may
impact your industry and business
processes and be prepared to adapt
accordingly digital signing and digital
signatures are transformative
technologies that have the potential to
revolutionize various aspects of the
modern world from secure online
transactions to efficient document
management these Technologies offer
numerous benefits and opportunities for
growth and
Innovation by staying informed choosing
the right tools implementing strong
security measures educating your team
and being future ready you can harness
the full potential of digital signing
and digital signatures in your industry
embrace the future of technology and
unlock the countless possibilities these
advancements offer throughout your cyber
security Journey you've explored various
Technologies to safeguard sensitive
information and ensure secure
communication from everything like
encryption algorithms keys and hashing
to the fascinating concept of digital
signing you've covered a lot of ground
about
cryptography now it's time to expand
your knowledge further by learning how
certificates fit into the picture in
this video you'll explore what digital
certificates are discover the role of
certificate authorities and get to know
different types of certificates
including the widely used SSL and TLS
certificates to begin let's consider the
following as a startup business Sam
Scoops has made great strides towards
expanding the business as part of Sam's
Endeavor she sets up a website now put
yourself in her customer shoes they want
to explore Sam scoop's online
offerings but they may have concerns
about the legitimacy and the security of
the website they're about to visit this
is where digital certificates fulfill an
essential role they act as electronic
credentials that validate the identity
of entities and ensure secure
Communications over the internet in
Sam's case a digital certificate serves
as a stamp of authenticity assuring her
customers that they are indeed visiting
the right website digital certificates
are electronic documents that are issued
by trusted organizations known as
certificate authorities or cas
certificate authorities play a crucial
role in verifying an entity's identity
by following strict protocols and
adhering to Industry standards digital
certificates guarantee that the
certificate holder is who they claim to
be they contain key information
including the website's name like Sam
Scoops the certificate holder's name a
public key for secure communication the
ca's digital signature and the
certificates validity
period digital certificates are an
essential component of secure online
transactions and Communications
ensuring that sensitive data remains
confidential and tamperproof the process
to obtain a digital certificate involves
several key steps first The Entity for
example Sam Scoops requests a
certificate from a CA then the ca
verifies the entity's identity following
stringent guidelines once the entity is
verified the ca issues a signed digital
certificate containing the entity's
public key the certificate is then
installed on the entity server and the
server uses it to establish secure
connections with clients when a user
views the website the client in this
case the web browser checks the server
certificate for validity then the client
verifies the ca's digital signature on
the certificate ensuring the
certificate's authenticity and finally
if the certificate is valid the client
establishes a secure encrypted
connection with the server using the
public key this process ensures secure
communication between clients and
servers protecting sensitive information
from EAS droppers and tampering
now let's review the different
certificate types secure socket layer
and transport layer security
certificates or SSL and TLS for short
are two common types of digital
certificates used to secure
Communications on the internet SSL is
the predecessor to TLS and while SSL is
still used in some contexts TLS is the
newer and more secure protocol both SSL
and TLS certificates use asymmetric
encryption to secure data transmission
between a client and a server by
encrypting data and verifying the identi
entities of the communicating parties
SSL and TLS certificates provide
confidentiality integrity and
authentication SSL and TLS certificates
have a wide range of applications
including securing web transactions
email Communications remote access and
iot devices e-commerce websites rely on
SSL and TLS certificates to protect
customer data and ensure secure online
transactions these certificates encrypt
sensitive information such as credit
card numbers and login details providing
a secure shopping experience for
customers certificates can also be used
to encrypt emails protecting sensitive
data from unauthorized access Email
encryption certificates also known as
smime certificates verify the sender's
identity and ensure the email content
remains
confidential organizations can use SSL
and TLS certificates to secure their
internal communication channels such as
intranets vpns and messaging
applications this helps protect
sensitive data and maintain
confidentiality within the organ
organization iot devices can use SSL or
TLS certificates to ensure secure
communication between devices and
servers protecting sensitive data from
eeve dropping and
tampering digital certificates and
certificate authorities are crucial
elements in ensuring trust and security
on the internet they serve as electronic
credentials that validate the identity
of entities and facilitate secure
Communications for Sam Scoops digital
certificates will be instrumental in
building trust and ensuring secure
online interaction ction with her
customers if you've ever subscribed to
something like a streaming service a
Game Pass ebooks or even webinars or
online courses then you've already
experienced the convenience of accessing
premium content with signed URLs perhaps
without even realizing it in this video
you'll come to know how signed URLs work
to Grant you access to this exclusive
content you will also discover their
role and advantages across different
applications like file sharing and
access control and learn about the
underlying technologies that power them
so let's dive in signed URLs ensure that
only authorized users can access certain
resources such as files or apis
requiring users to have a valid
signature before accessing the
resource but how does this work to
answer the question let's explore the
process of generating and validating
signed
URLs first the resource owner like a
streaming service provider creates a key
to sign the URLs then the resource owner
creates a signed URL by combining a few
Essential Elements including the
resources URL the secret key and
optional parameters like an expiration
time or access level the signed URL is
then shared with the authorized
user then when the user makes a request
using the signed URL the server receives
the request and validates the signature
using the same secret key if the
signature is valid and the URL has not
expired the server grants access to the
requested resource if the signature is
invalid or the URL is expired the server
denies access
but why go through all that trouble well
there are several key benefits of using
signed URLs including increased security
the ability to Grant temporary access
having fine grain control of access and
reducing the complexity for the end user
for instance by requiring a valid
signature signed URLs help prevent
unauthorized access to protected
resources improving the overall security
of sensitive data or confidential
documents then when it comes to enabling
access for a period of time signed URLs
can be used to Grant users temporary
access to a given resource this feature
is especially useful for sharing time
sensitive information or granting
temporary access to premium content for
example if you've only subscribed to an
online service for a month sign URLs can
ensure that your access expires
automatically at the end of the
subscription period signs URLs also
provide resource owners with fine
grained control this means they can
control access to specific Resources by
generating different signed urls with
different access levels or permissions
this allows for a highly customizable
and flexible access management system
finally signs URLs make the process of
accessing resources Easier by reducing
the need for users to log in or
otherwise authenticate themselves to
access secured resources you now know
about the benefits of using signed URLs
and that they can be used to control
access to premium content but signed
URLs go beyond pay walls and
subscription based content in fact they
offer a versatile solution for a wide
range of applications signed URLs can be
used to securely share files with
specific users like confidential
documents images and videos this is
especially important in Industries like
healthcare and finance where sensitive
data must be securely shared apis can be
protected using signed URLs to ensure
that only authorized users or
applications can access specific
endpoints or resources this is crucial
for maintaining the security of apis and
preventing unauthorized access to
sensitive of data signed URLs can also
be used to Grant temporary access to
resources for third party services such
as file conversion or analysis tools
this enables secure collaboration with
external Partners while maintaining
control over sensitive data now what
about the technologies that make all of
what you've covered so far possible
let's begin with the hash based message
authentication code or hmac hmac is a
widely used algorithm for generating a
unique signature based on a secret key
and a message which is in this case the
URL it provides a way to verify the
data's integrity and the sender's
authenticity then there's Json web token
or JWT for short JWT is a secure and
compact way to share information between
two parties over the web this
information is in a special format
called Json and it's safely signed
digitally in web development cookies are
used to remember things about you like
your preferences and whether you've
already signed in so a JWT cookie is a
special kind of cookie that that carries
a JWT this is how it works when you log
into a website the server creates a JWT
with your information and puts it in a
cookie this cookie is sent back and
forth between your browser and server
letting you stay logged in so you don't
need to enter your password again
finally public key cryptography or
asymmetric cryptography as you've come
to know it can be used to generate
signed URLs by using a private key to
sign the URL and a public key to verify
the
signature this approach provides an
additional layer of security as the
private key is not shared with the end
user or the server validating the
signature having gained insights into
the workings benefits use cases and
underlying Technologies of signed URLs
you should now have a better
understanding of this powerful security
mechanism and its role in safeguarding
sensitive
resources whether you need to securely
share files control API access manage
pay wall or subscription based content
or provide temporary access for
thirdparty services signed URLs offer a
versatile solution that empowers
individuals and organizations alike
authentication and authorization are two
concepts you've come to know they form
the Cornerstone of security across
multiple online and Computer Services
they allow organizations to control and
Grant access to data based on an
individual's rights and privileges but
managing access across multiple
platforms can become quite complex
especially if many employees are
involved so how can organizations
efficiently manage authentication and
authorization across their Workforce
this video will introduce you to C ized
authentication and authorization which
offers a solution to this challenge Sam
Scoops is a lively ice cream parlor
filled with a diverse team of
individuals each with their own roles
and
responsibilities among them are cashiers
who handle transactions ice cream makers
who create delicious treats suppliers
Who deliver the ingredients and managers
Who oversee all operations each role
requires access to specific areas of the
shop or specific sets of data to carry
out their duties efficiently now let's
examine the importance of implementing
centralized authentication and
authorization systems in more detail the
challenge of efficiently managing
network access for a variety of users is
a struggle for organizations of all
sizes centralized authentication and
authorization systems are integral to
this task across multiple machines
servers mobile users and data centers
they provide an efficient solution for
managing network access such a system
consolidates Access Control simplifies
Management and enhances control by
having a single point of Authentication
organiz ations can enforce consistent
access policies across various networks
and services this reduces the
administrative workload associated with
managing numerous access protocols and
bolsters security by minimizing the
potential for Access violations and
inconsistencies moreover centralized
authentication and authorization systems
facilitate single signon or SSO
capabilities a feature that
significantly improves the user
experience with SSO users authenticate
themselves just once to gain access to
multiple services or applications
eliminating the needs to remember
multiple passwords or repeatedly prove
their identity this is not just for
convenience it also improves security by
reducing the number of times users must
enter their credentials the likelihood
of fishing attacks password theft and
other security breaches
decreases in essence SSO simplifies and
secures user access an increasingly
critical requirement in today's digital
landscape now let's imagine that Sam's
business flourishes and she wants to
open multiple new ice cream shops
with each new shop there are more
employees more roles more data and
consequently more access controls are
required managing all of this for each
shop individually would take a
Monumental task that's where
centralization fulfills an important
role Sam can manage all the access
controls from a single place by having a
centralized authentication and
authorization
system such a centralized system comes
packed with numerous benefits let's
examine these in more detail firstly a
centralized authentication and
authorization system increases
efficiency
instead of Sam having to travel to each
shop and set up the access controls
individually she can manage it all from
one place it saves time reduces effort
and streamlines the process
significantly secondly a centralized
system ensures consistency it ensures
that the same rules and standards of
Access Control are applied across all
shops this provides uniformity and fair
treatment in how access is granted and
controlled thirdly a centralized system
helps to enhance security it's easier to
Monitor and manage the system from one
place making it simpler to detect any
suspicious activities and act on them
quickly security measures can be
implemented more efficiently and
effectively with all the access controls
in one place lastly a centralized system
allows for better
scalability as Sam's business grows
adding new users creating new roles or
even adding entirely new shops can be
easily managed within the system it can
grow and adapt according to the
requirements of the business remember
implementing robust authentication and
authoriz I Iz ation systems isn't just a
nice to have in today's digital age it's
an absolute must to safeguard data and
ensure seamless
operations as digital and business
environments become more interconnected
the role of these systems becomes even
more
significant investing in a centralized
system to manage these processes can
revolutionize business operations by
ensuring consistency and security it
provides a backbone for seamless
operations even as the business scales
for Sam it means she can focus on
perfecting her ice cream recipes and
expanding her business knowing that her
system will adapt and grow with her
adopting a centralized authentication
and authorization approach lays the
groundwork for an efficient and secure
network
environment by offering precise control
over who can access what resources and
when this system ensures that critical
data and services are only available to
authorized users this minimizes the risk
of data breaches a crucial advantage in
an era where cyber threats are ever
evolving and increasingly sophisticated
furthermore by consolidating user data
in one place the system allows for easy
auditing and monitoring helping
organizations spot suspicious activities
and respond swiftly a centralized
authentication and authorization system
is not just about convenience or
efficiency it is about protecting an
organization's most valuable Assets in
the digital
age previously you learned that
authentication is the process of
verifying the identity of a user device
or system while authorization is the
process of granting access to a resource
or system based on the authenticated
users permissions in this video you will
explore different authentication and
authorization methods including
passwords Biometrics and multiactor
authentication and their use cases you
will also gain insight into how
passwords are stored using common
encryption methods first let's look at
multiactor authentication traditionally
authentication has been done using
passwords think of a website where you
enter unique combination of characters
to prove your identity however with the
rise in cyber threats and hacking
attempts pass passwords alone are no
longer enough to ensure the security of
systems and networks this is where
multiactor authentication comes in
multiactor authentication is a security
process that requires you to provide two
or more forms of authentication to
verify your identity the most common
types of factors are something you know
something you have something you are
somewhere you are and something you do
let's discuss each of these factors in
more detail firstly something you know
is a factor that refers to information
that only you should know such as a
password or pin passwords should be
complex long and include a combination
of upper and lowercase letters numbers
and special characters something you
know is commonly used in authentication
methods and it's essential to choose
strong passwords and change them
regularly to ensure the security of the
system something you have is a physical
object that you possess such as a
smartphone or a security token for
example you might log into a system
using your password and then receive a
verification code code on your
smartphone which you must enter to
complete the authentication process this
is becoming increasingly popular
particularly in the age of mobile
devices and it is often used as a second
factor of authentication with a password
the third Factor something you are is a
physical characteristic unique to you
alone such as your fingerprint or facial
recognition for example some laptops use
fingerprint readers to log into the
system and some smartphones use facial
recognition to unlock the device this is
known as biometric Authentication and it
provides a high level of security
because it is difficult to replicate or
steal someone's physical
characteristics this is becoming more
common as technology
advances the next Factor somewhere you
are refers to your location which can be
determined by GPS or other location
tracking Technologies this requires you
to provide something you have such as a
smartphone and your current location for
example you might log into a system
using your password and then receive a
notification on your smartphone asking
you to confirm that you are in a
specific location
this is commonly used in two Factor
authentication finally something you do
refers to your behavior or actions this
can include things like the speed and
pattern of your typing your mouse
movements or the way you interact with
the system however due to its complexity
and potential for false positives this
is less commonly used in authentication
now that you have covered the various
multiactor authentication methods let's
revisit passwords and how they are
stored password hashing takes your
password or any other piece of data and
uses an encryption algorithm to turn it
into a short string of letters and
numbers if a website is hacked cyber
criminals don't get access to your
password instead they just get access to
the encrypted hash created by your
password when you create an account or
change your password you provide a
password as input the system processes
the password using a hash function such
as Sha 256 the function takes the
password and converts it into a fixed
length hash which consists of a series
of seemingly random characters a random
value called ass Sal is generated and
combined with the password before
hashing this ensures that even if two
users have the same password their
hashes will differ the salt is stored
alongside the hash in the database so
that it can be used during the password
verification process the original
password is not saved reducing the risk
of unauthorized access to your account
when you attempt to log in the system
retrieves the stored hash and salt from
the database combines the input password
with the salt and applies the same hash
function if the resulting hash matches
the store hash the password is
considered correct and you granted
access in this video you learned how
authentication and authorization play
crucial roles in safeguarding sensitive
data and resources traditional
password-based authentication has its
limitations and the increasing
prevalence of cyber threats calls for
more robust methods such as multiactor
authentication and biometric
authentication to enhance security you
learned about the elements of multiactor
authentication something you know
something you have something you are
somewhere you are and something you do
to create a more secure authentication
process finally you gained insight into
how securely storing passwords using
hashing and salting techniques further
strengthens the security of your
accounts by minimizing the risk of
unauthorized access well done and
congratulations on making it through
another week you've been working hard
and now understand encryption and the
techniques used to protect data private
key encryption and how they are formed
used and stored the fundamentals of
digital signing and signature
and centralized authentication and
authorization this week's content is
probably fresh in your memory but it's
always a good idea to revisit the most
important points so let's look back on
the week to make sure you are prepared
for the quiz you started your learning
on cryptography by working through the
fundamentals of encryption learning
about how it evolved from simple
techniques like the Caesar Cipher to the
advanced algorithms used today you
learned how symmetric encryption uses a
shared secret key to encrypt and decrypt
data while asymmetric encryption uses is
a pair of public and private Keys Next
you explored some common encryption
tools including pgp which offers
intuitive interfaces that enable secure
communication full dis encryption tools
like bit locker and file vault vpns
which create secure and private network
connection over the internet and you
learn that endtoend encrypted messaging
secures messages between sender and
recipient by making a challenging for
cyber attackers to intercept and read
the messages you follow this by taking a
deeper dive into private and public Keys
discovering that private keys are
generated by creating a sequence of bits
or ones and zeros which serve as the key
itself you also zoned in on the advanced
encryption standard or AES and learned
how AES supports key sizes of 128 192
and 256 bits you are also introduced to
Blowfish a symmetric key encryption that
uses variable length Keys ranging
between 32 and 448 bits offering more
flexibility than AES you learn that
public keying encryption also known as
asymmetric key encryption uses a pair of
keys one public and one private to
encrypt and decrypt data RSA is an
example of public key encryption it's
based on a mathematical property of
prime numbers generating two large prime
numbers and calculating their product
the resulting number is used as the
modulus for the encryption and
decryption process you also discovered
that the Diffy halman key exchange
process involves key generation key
exchange shared secret generation and
encryption and decryption you then gain
technical knowledge of how hashing
algorithms operate learning that hashing
is a process that takes input and turns
it into a fixed size string of bytes
this output is called a hash and is
unique for each input so even a slight
change in the input results in a
completely different hash this makes it
challenging for malicious actors to
reverse engineer the original input from
the hash making it a crucial technique
in data security you also got to know a
few commonly used hashing techniques and
algorithms including sha md5 and Blake
2 thereafter you learn that digital
signing and digital signatures used
cryptographic techniques like RSA and
ecdsa to ensure the authenticity
integrity and non-repudiation of
electronic documents you followed this
learning by gaining insight into digital
certificates which are in electronic
credentials that validate the identity
of entities to ensure secure
communication these certificates are
issued by trusted organizations known as
certificate authorities or Casa that
guarantee that the certificate holder is
who they claim to be you also learned
that secure socket layer and transport
lay security certificates or SSL and TLS
for short are the two most common types
of digital certificates used and now
understand the differences between them
you then moved on to learn that signed
URLs ensure that only authorized users
can access certain resources and that
they offer a versatile solution for a
wide range of applications including
secure file sharing API Access Control
pay walls and subscription based content
and temporary access for third party
Services through this examination you
uncovered that signed URLs offer several
benefits including increased security
granular control over access and reduced
complexity in the final part of the week
you delved deeper into the vital aspects
of centralized authentication and
authorization you walked through the
multifactor authentication process which
is a security process that requires you
to provide two or more forms of
authentication to very ver ify your
identity then you turned your attention
to password hashing and learn that it
takes your password or any other piece
of data and uses an encryption algorithm
to turn it into a short string of
letters and numbers remember securely
storing passwords using hashing and
salting techniques strengthens the
security of your accounts and minimizes
the risk of unauthorized access to
reinforce your learning you participated
in in video questions knowledge checks
and an exercise on initial protective
measures you've learned a lot about
cryptography and as you approach the
module quiz is consider going through
some of the key learning material again
to reinforce your understanding looking
ahead you will expand your knowledge of
security controls and applications by
diving into Network and device-based
threats where you will learn all about
safeguarding systems and data from
potential vulnerabilities best of luck
you're probably familiar with the
sensation of worry that follows
accidentally sending a confidential
email to the incorrect person Sam Scoops
recently had a similar experience a
confidential email with brand new
exciting ice cream recipes was provided
to the production team by the team in
charge of creating flavors but when it
was revealed that the recipes had been
leaked on an online form Panic said in
worried about the situation Sam employs
a cyber security company to investigate
the matter unfortunately the cyber
security company finds that Sam Scoops
has suffered a Cyber attack with a
method known as man- in the middle or
mitm the hackers accessed their networks
intercepted emails and stole information
without anyone noticing unfortunately
attacks like this are now commonplace
enabling cyber criminals to maliciously
steal confidential information
quietly this video will delve further
into data transmission threats and
emphasize the importance of data
protection data transmission has become
a part of everyday life whether it's
sending group chat messages on your cell
phone to friends or sending work emails
containing attachments both are equally
private and can contain data that
increases your risk of suffering a Cyber
attack let's start by discovering
exactly what is meant by the term
transmission threat in a network data is
always passing from one device to
another while the data is traveling
cyber criminals can use various
techniques to listen and capture this
data these techniques are called
transmission threats you've already
heard about some of these techniques
including eavesdropping sniffing and
mitm but how do these attacks occur
let's find out an mitm attack as you may
recall involves an attacker intercepting
Communications between two parties such
as a client and server in this technique
in a attacker reads inserts and modifies
your messages without either party
knowing that the link between them has
been compromised for an mitm attack to
work the attacker must be able to
intercept and relay messages between you
and the other party but how is this
accomplished one possible way is by the
attacker firstly compromising the
connection this includes connections
like public Wi-Fi or ethernet networks
or the attacker accessing something
physical like a switch or router then
the attacker pretends to be an access
point for the Wi-Fi or router or an
ethernet switch this establishes the
connection making you believe that you
are communicating with the other party
directly however you are actually only
communicating with the attacker the
attacker is now in control of the entire
conversation and can choose to only
forward selective messages between both
parties they can also maintain their
anonymity modify messages or even inject
new messages to perform mitm attacks on
encrypted Communications the attacker
needs to have a way to decrypt the
traffic either through pre pre-shared
keys or by tricking you into switching
to weak encryption algorithms that the
attacker can crack mitm attacks can be
avoided by employing strong encryption
techniques and digital certificates to
sign conversations furthermore if you
need to access critical Services you
should avoid connecting to public
untrusted networks another technique
attackers use is something called SSL
stripping this technique downgrades a
secure https connection to the less
secure HTTP connection this method
effectively bypasses the encryption
provided by SSL and TLS thus allowing
the attacker to intercept and read your
sensitive data that has been transmitted
let's explore how cyber criminals
accomplish this the victim attempts to
connect to a secure website using
https the attacker positioned between
the victim and the server intercepts the
request and establishes a https
connection with the targeted website on
the victim's behalf the attacker then
sends the requested content to the
victim over an unencrypted HTTP
connection
while maintaining the https connection
with the targeted website the victim
unaware of the downgrade to http send
sensitive information to the attacker in
plain text the attacker can now read
modify or steal the data before
forwarding it to the intended recipient
over the original https connection a
replay attack is another approach used
by attackers a replay attack involves an
attacker maliciously capturing and
retransmitting data even when the data
is encrypted retransmitting the
encrypted packets can enable an attacker
to carry out an mitm attack or
authenticate themselves as a valid user
when the attacker captures an encrypted
message they can retransmit it and the
receiver noticing valid Cipher text
decrypts it for instance consider a
scenario where you use a secure network
to send a message to your bank
authorizing a $100 transfer an attacker
can capture and replay this transmission
multiple times resulting in multiple
unauthorized transactions the easiest
way to prevent replay attacks is to use
one-time passwords or otps in conclusion
the advancement of technology in recent
years has led you to perform more and
more sensitive operations on your
devices as a result data transmission
threats have become increasingly popular
for cyber criminals as a budding cyber
security specialist you should
constantly be aware and up to speed on
the current trends and preventative
measures available to you this video
took you through an exploration of data
transmission threats examined the
various types and explor how cyber
criminals perform them around the
World Imagine a scenario where you're
working freelance and traveling to
various locations for work due to being
a freelancer you often send emails and
touch base with colleagues and Friends
while connected to public Wi-Fi services
in hotels or coffee shops is this
scenario familiar to you as you
previously learned these networks often
pose security risks for
man-in-the-middle or E dropping attacks
whether you are checking your online
banking or examining a spreadsheet for
work your online activity should always
have have a high level of privacy and
security so what is the solution in this
video you will take a deeper dive into
the technical details of virtual private
networks or vpns discovering how they
work so far you've learned that a VPN
helps protect your data from potential
hackers ensuring that sensitive reports
and emails remain confidential but how
do vpns work well a VPN starts by
creating a secure encrypted connection
between your device and a remote server
operated by the VPN service this secure
connection is often referred to as a VPN
tunnel all internet traffic that passes
through this tunnel is encrypted and
therefore secure from
interception so when you activate your
VPN using VPN software your device
connects to the VPN server This Server
could be located anywhere in the world
secure protocols such as openvpn l2tp or
ipse SSP and lastly ik V2 are used to
create the connection your VPN provider
chooses a protocol based on your
specific needs including your device
compatibility speed and level of
security then once your connection is
established the VPN encrypts your data
as you know encryption is the process of
converting data into a code to prevent
unauthorized access vpns of strong
encryption protocols like AES 256 to
encrypt the data before it leaves your
device making your data unreadable to
anyone who might want to intercept it
after encryption the data is transmitted
through the VPN tunnel to the VPN server
so even if a hacker intercepts your data
since it's encrypted they won't be able
to decrypt it due to the encryption
hence the Brilliance of vpns The Next
Step sees the data reach the VPN server
where it's decrypted back into its
original readable format the VPN server
then transfers your data to its Target
location for example a website if
required the VPN server will receive
data back from this website encrypt it
again and send it back to you in
addition to ensuring secure data
transmission vpns also make it appear
that the data is coming from the
location of the VPN server and not from
your device or
location this not only keeps your data
secure but also helps protect your
online identity and allows you to bypass
Geographic restrictions on content
although it seems like a lengthy process
each step is completed quickly so
browsing safely requires no additional
effort so now that you know how vpns
work let's explore some common VPN types
that are available the most common type
of VPN is a Remote Access VPN this
enables you to create secure connections
with a remote computer network making it
appear as if they're directly connected
to that Network on the other hand a
sight tosite VPN connects entire
networks such as a branch office Network
to a company headquarters Network
however when several offices of the same
company are interconnected using a sight
to- sight VPN it forms an internet-based
VPN providing a seamless internal
Network for the company lastly an
externet based VPN connects companies
with external entities like suppliers
customers or Partners offering them
limited access to the company's internet
You Now understand how VPN works and the
different types available but what about
methods what method does your device use
to connect to the VPN server these
methods are known as the VPN protocol
let's explore them now first is openvpn
protocol which is highly secure and
versatile it's compatible with various
encryption algorithms and is widely
regarded as the industry standard next
is the l2tp or IPC which is actually two
protocols used together l2tp or layer to
Tunnel protocol creates the tunnel and
IP secc or Internet Protocol security
handles the encryption l2tp is
considered secure but slower than
openvpn due to its double
encapsulation you also have a
point-to-point tunneling protocol or
pptp which is one of the oldest
protocols while it's fast and easy to
set up it's not a secure option as
hackers can manipulate it quite easily
lastly internet key exchange version 2
or ikev2 is a fast and secure protocol
that is excellent at reestablishing your
connection if it gets interrupted as you
might have noticed you have a lot of
options here so how do you choose the
right VPN for you try considering the
following factors before making your own
choice for a VPN firstly consider the
security protocols that the VPN software
supports next find out if they keep a
log of your browsing data explore how
many server locations they offer you
should also make yourself aware of what
bandwidth comes with the software is the
VPN software compatible with your
device's operating system and lastly
before buying a VPN subscription find
out how many devices you can connect to
a single account well done as you now
know vpns have a lot to offer in terms
of protecting and securing your data but
it's vital to remember that not all vpns
are made equal making sure you select
the one that best meets your needs is
vital to protecting your data this video
took you through an exploration of vpns
and examined how they work behind the
scenes to keep your data safe and secure
you learned about the different types of
vpns and protocols used today exploring
their use cases and advantages what's
more you've learned how to select a VPN
that meets your own specific
needs you've studied many aspects of the
threat landscape and explored the
various threats that businesses and
individuals including yourself face
daily however there's another threat
lurking in today's threat landscape and
that's advanced persistent threats or a
imagine you've been running a successful
business for several years and
continually face cybercity threats from
hacking groups taking your digital
defenses to the next level you decide to
enlist help from cyber Security Experts
to fortify your cyber security but using
a formidable and sustained Cyber attack
a hacker group exploits a previously
unknown vulnerability in your system
leading to your business suffering a
data breach an AP occurs when a hacker
group targets a business over an
extended period of time employing a
variety of techniques to breach the
defense system of an
organization this video discusses APS
and explores the various stages of these
attacks let's start by refreshing your
memory on what a threat landscape is a
threat landscape is an organization's
overall cyber security environment but
where do AP attacks fit in AP attacks
are not your typical Cyber attack which
targets a large number of random devices
instead APS are sophisticated threats
specifically designed to exploit
vulnerabilities in Target devices it's
vital to have an understanding of the
stages of AP attacks so that you can
identify and mitigate against them
typically AP attacks take place in the
following way they start with an initial
reconnaissance a technical term that
describes the process of gathering as
much information as possible about the
target to identify any potential
vulnerabilities next is weaponization in
this phase an attacker creates malware
designed to exploit the identified
vulnerabilities often using encryption
and other techniques to avoid detection
then the attacker delivers the malware
to the Target device often through spear
fishing emails or exploiting network
vulnerabilities once inside the network
the malware exploits the vulnerabilities
and installs itself within the system
next is command and control or CNC this
is where the malware establishes a CNC
channel to communicate with the
attackers allowing them to control the
infected system remotely then it's
lateral movement where the attackers
explore the network identifying valuable
data and spreading the malware to other
systems within the network data
exfiltration comes next this is where
the attackers begin to extract the
identified valuable data sending it back
to their servers the attackers even
establish methods to maintain their
presence within the network even if the
initial malware is detected and removed
and last up is clean up and exit after
achieving their objectives the attackers
clean up their tracks and exit the
system often leaving no trace of their
presence as you now know APS are among
the most sophisticated assaults now
taking place in the digital world let's
explore some of the characteristics that
APS have in common first is objectivity
apts are not random attacks they target
a specific entity and are meticulously
planned for maximum effect next is
persistency APS are long-term attacks
with hacker is working to remain within
the network undetected for extended
periods their goal is to stay hidden
while extrating as much valuable
information as possible they are
sophisticated in fact APS are
characterized by their Advanced
Techniques and tactics they often
exploit zero day vulnerabilities and use
complex malware to infiltrate the target
system lastly evasion apts are designed
to evade detection they use Advanced
evasion techniques that bypass
traditional security measures and hide
their presence you might now believe
that preventing APS is an impossible
task and yes given their sophisticated
and prolonged nature prevention can be
challenging however adopting certain
strategies can significantly reinforce
your defenses against them for example
regular patching is essential as timely
updating and patching of systems can
deter attackers from exploiting known
vulnerabilities it's also equally
important to invest in education many AP
attacks commence with a seemingly
innocent fishing email educating
yourself on how to spot to sep of emails
is a proactive step toward prevention
another effective strategy is Network
segmentation which can obstruct
attacker's ability to easily navigate
through your network you can also
Implement intrusion detection systems or
IDs to identify any suspicious activity
within the network potentially detecting
an AP attack in its early stages and
lastly regular auditing and monitoring
of your network serve as a crucial line
of defense helping to identify any
unusual activity that may suggest an
ongoing AP attack by exploring advanced
persistent threats this video has
provided you with Essential Knowledge
into the modern mod and sophisticated
ways that hackers are threatening the
digital world today you now understand
ap's distinctive characteristics and
understand its various stages of attack
Remember by taking the prevention steps
covered you can greatly protect your
organization against these sophisticated
and enduring cyber threats as you
continue to go through Network and
device-based threats remember the
crucial role that knowledge Improvement
and due diligence play in safeguarding
your
devices imagine a large organization's
network security team notices an unusual
slowdown in their Network performance
upon investigation they find the
firewalls overload with redundant and
outdated rules furthermore the lack of
rule prioritization is creating latency
the team realizes they must adopt a
thorough firewall optimization strategy
that includes rule management strategic
rule prioritization regular Audits and
continuous monitoring and logging for
better and efficient traffic Management
in this video you will learn about each
of these steps and the role that they
play in implementing an effective
firewall optimization strategy firewalls
require ongoing management and
optimization to function effectively
unoptimized firewalls can reduce
security and network performance let's
discuss some of the optimization
strategies that you can follow in your
organization the first one you'll
explore is Rule management and why it's
important to remove redundancies and
outdated rules a firewall operates by
executing a set of rules that Define the
kind of traffic to be allowed or blocked
over time these rules can accumulate
leading to redundancies conflicts or
even outdated rules that no longer serve
a purpose for example if the firewall
rule set contains multiple rules for the
same traffic type it could lead to
unnecessary processing and potential
security
vulnerabilities also if a rule
corresponds to an obsolete service it
can become a Gateway for threats
therefore it's critical to regularly
review and remove these redundant and
outdated rules to improve the efficiency
and security of the firewall now let's
examine the importance of rule
prioritization the sequence in which
firewall rules are processed plays a
significant role in network performance
and Security in general firewalls
process rules from top to bottom and
execute the first matching rule they
encounter this functionality makes the
placement of rules crucial by
strategically placing high priority and
frequently used rules at the top you can
significantly enhance security and
reduce latency this prioritization
ensures that critical security policies
are always enforced first
and that most traffic gets processed
quickly leading to improved network
speed next let's discover why conducting
regular firewall audits is another
important optimization strategy just as
regular Health checkups are essential
for our well-being regular audits are
crucial for the health and efficiency of
firewalls an audit involves a
comprehensive examination of the
firewalls configuration the validity of
its rules the necessity of open ports
and its alignment with the organization
security policy and effective audit can
identify configuration errors obsolete
rules and potential security risks
enhancing the performance and
reliability of the firewall also audits
ensure that the firewall remains
compliant with evolving regulatory
requirements and can help in avoiding
potential legal issues but how can you
anticipate potential threats monitoring
and logging is an effective early
warning system that provides you with
the tools you need to accomplish this
task keeping a watchful eye on firewall
activities can provide provide valuable
insights for threat detection and
instant response by monitoring firewall
logs you can spot suspicious patterns
like multiple failed login attempts or
traffic from known malicious IP
addresses each of these suspicious
patterns can indicate a potential Cyber
attack finally let's see how automating
firewall optimization can have a
positive impact on your organization as
networks become more complex managing
and optimizing firewalls manually can
become a daunting task for fortunately
numerous tools and solutions can
automate many aspects of firewall
optimization from identifying redundant
rules to monitoring Network traffic in
real time these tools can simplify
firewall management automating rule
prioritization ensures that the rule
order always reflects the current
Network conditions and security
requirements as a result the firewall
remains optimally configured even as the
network environment evolves in this
video you learned that firewall
optimization is not a one-time task but
an ongoing process it involves
maintaining a clean and updated rule set
prioritizing rules strategically
conducting regular Audits and actively
monitoring and logging activities
automation can make this process more
efficient freeing up valuable time and
resources by investing in firewall
optimization organizations can ensure
that their firewalls remain secure
robust and reliable providing the best
possible protection against the ever
evolving landscape of cyber threats
remember a well optimized firewall is
the foundation of a resilient cyber
secur
strategy imagine you have friends over
who need to connect to the internet you
are cautious as you don't want to expose
your home network and all your devices
to potential risks what if one of their
devices contains malware that might
threaten your devices what's the
solution fortunately you recall that
your Wi-Fi router has a guest Network
option that enables you to establish a
distinct Network for your visitors you
set up this guest Network and give them
the access
credentials despite using the same
router their devices are kept separate
from your primary Network this is an
example of network segmentation and in
this video you are going to go into more
detail about what it is and how it can
benefit you network segmentation is an
architectural approach of dividing a
computer network into smaller manageable
units or segments the primary purpose of
this process is to enhance security and
improve Network performance it also
enables Network administrators to manage
devices and to monitor them more
efficiently at an individual or
household level Networks segmentation
might seem like Overkill but in certain
scenarios it can provide tangible
benefits earlier you learned how to
enhances the security of devices
connected to the primary network of a
household by separating them from
visitors or guests by creating a guest
Network now let's look at Network
segmentation at an organizational level
in an organizational setting Network
segmentation is a critical part of
network design and security strategy
businesses often manage large networks
with many interconnected devices by
segmenting these networks they can
protect sensitive data and systems from
potential threats improve Network
performance and comply with certain
regulatory requirements an organization
might create separate Network segments
for different departments for example
the finance department's Network segment
might be isolated from the marketing
Department's Network to prevent
potential cross-contamination of data or
security
threats furthermore Network segmentation
enables organizations to implement more
granular access controls by controlling
who can access each segment
organizations can limit the potential
impact of a security breach next let's
examine how Network segmentation can be
achieved either physically or
logically physical segmentation involves
using different physical devices to
create distinct Network segments for
example an organization might use
different switches or routers for
different network segments logical
segmentation on the other hand involves
creating separate Networks networ that
share the same physical infrastructure
this is often achieved using
Technologies like VLS or virtual local
area networks or subnetting despite
sharing the same physical devices each
logical Network operates as a separate
entity with its own rules and policies
an example of logical Network
segmentation is the guest Wi-Fi network
scenario earlier in this video Network
segmentation has both advantages and
challenges let's first explore the
advantages firstly improve Network
performance performance it reduces
Network traffic by confining network
broadcasts within their respective
segments this reduction can lead to
better Network performance and faster
transmission speeds secondly enhanced
security by dividing the network into
separate segments the risk of
unauthorized access to critical
resources is minimized if a security
breach occurs in one segment it can be
isolated to prevent the spread to other
areas another Advantage is Regulatory
Compliance for businesses such as
Financial or Healthcare institutions
that deal with sensitive Data Network
segmentation can be a key strategy to
comply with privacy regulations you will
learn more about privacy regulations
such as gdpr HIPAA and PCI DSS and their
roles later and finally resource
optimization is another Advantage
Network segmentation allows for more
precise control of network traffic which
can lead to better use of bandwidth and
other network
resources now let's examine some
challenges faced in implementing
Networks segmentation firstly complexity
implementing Network segmentation can be
complex especially for large networks it
requires careful planning and a deep
understanding of Network Technologies
and principles another challenge is
maintenance segmented networks can be
more challenging to maintain and monitor
each segment might require its own set
of rules and policies adding to the
administrative overhead and finally cost
depending on how segmentation is
implemented it may require additional
Hardware or Advanced networking devices
leading to increased costs in summary
Network segmentation despite some
challenges is a valuable strategy for
improving network security and
performance whether you're an individual
looking to secure your home network or
an organization aiming to protect your
sensitive Data Network segmentation can
provide significant
benefits in this video you learned the
fundamentals of network segmentation the
differences between physical and logical
segmentation and its advantages and
challenges
you've also been introduced to some real
world examples of how it can be used by
individuals and
organizations imagine you're an employee
of Sam scoops and hackers are trying to
steal your important financial
information one day a group of hackers
attempt to break into your computer but
luckily you were prepared you've already
installed an intrusion detection and
prevention system or idps to keep your
system safe as soon as the hackers
started their attack the idps detected
their suspicious activities right away
and alert you and your security team
immediately letting you act and stop the
hackers in this video you will learn
about idps and how it can help your
business stay safe and secure from cyber
attacks first let's explore what exactly
an idps is an idps is a software or
Hardware based security solution that
monitors Network traffic and system
activities to identify potential
security breaches its primary goal is to
detect and respond to intrusions whether
they are attempted attacks malware
infections or authorized access or any
other malicious activities that may
compromise the Integrity confidentiality
or availability of a network system when
it detects something unusual or
suspicious happening within the network
it immediately raises an alarm and sends
alerts to designated individuals or
security Personnel these alerts provide
crucial information about the nature of
the intrusion enabling Swift response
and mitigation measures to minimize
potential damage and protect the
organization's assets there are a few
types of idps and their effectiveness
lies in their detection techniques let's
examine the different types of detection
signature-based detection Compares
incoming data against a database of
known attack signatures anomaly based
detection establishes a baseline of
normal behavior and raises alerts when
deviations
occur finally behavioral analysis
monitors users and system Behavior
detecting suspicious activities that may
indicate an intrusion attempt next let's
explore the components of an ID GPS
firstly sensors these are responsible
for capturing and analyzing Network
traffic system logs and other relevant
data they can be placed strategically
throughout the network infrastructure to
gather information from various points
next are analyzers which examine the
data collected by sensors they search
for patterns anomalies and known attack
signatures analyzers utilize
sophisticated algorithms and techniques
to accurately identify potential threats
the idps maintains a database of known
tax signatures and patterns which is
continuously updated to stay informed
about emerging threats this enables the
system to compare incoming data against
a vast library of known attacks finally
the user interface enables
administrators to manage and configure
the idps from a central control panel it
enables them to view alerts generate
reports and customize the system
according to the organization specific
security requirements you've gained
insight into the components of an idps
but what are the benefits firstly let's
examine early threat detection idps
Solutions are designed to detect
potential intrusions in real time or
near real time allowing organizations to
respond swiftly and mitigate the impact
of
attacks secondly increased incident
response efficiency an idps reduces the
manual effort required for instant
response by automating the detection and
response processes it provides security
teams with valuable insights and
actionable information to investigate
and remediate security incidents
effectively next is enhanced Network
visibility an idps provides
organizations with a deeper
understanding of their Network
infrastructure it helps identify
vulnerabilities monitor user activities
and detect abnormal behavior patterns
contributing to overall Network
visibility and security and finally
Regulatory Compliance specific
regulations and compliance requirements
regarding network security exist in many
Industries and
jurisdictions deploying an idps s can
assist organizations in meeting these
obligations and avoiding penalties or
legal consequences even though there are
many benefits to deploying an idps there
are also some potential challenges that
you should be aware of firstly false
positives and negatives idps systems May
generate false alerts flagging
legitimate activities as threats known
as false positives or fail to detect
actual intrusions known as false
negatives keeping the right balance
between accuracy and minimizing false
alerts is a challenge next is evolving
threats cyber threats constantly evolve
with attackers using new techniques to
breach networks idps Solutions must
continuously update their attack
signature databases and stay current
with emerging threats to provide
effective protection and finally
scalability the scalability of an idps
becomes crucial as organizations grow
and their networks expand in conclusion
this video took you through the
fundamentals of an idps you learned what
an idps is and its role in network
security you examin how an idps works
and the different types of detection
such as signature-based anomaly based
and behavioral analysis you also analyze
the benefits and challenges of idps
detection techniques understanding an
idps is vital as you begin your career
in the cyber security field and
knowledge of these components detection
techniques and best practices will
provide you with the skills necessary to
help protect networks against evolving
threats have you ever worked on your
computer and received a pop-up message
saying a software update is available
but as you are busy you just click
cancel instead of install or update
thinking you'll do it later only to
never get around to it sound familiar
now imagine if this happened across your
organization with everyone neglecting
software updates this could lead to
Serious consequences with cyber
criminals exploiting the very
vulnerabilities these updates were
intended to fix putting your
organization's data and systems at risk
this video will demonstrate the
importance of application updates and
why it's crucial for all individuals
within an organization to prioritize
them let's start with understanding what
application updates are and why they are
important well to put it simply
developers are constantly working on
improvements for their software whether
it be an app or something more intricate
like an operating system they release
these updates regularly to provide new
features enhanced performance and more
importantly security updates these new
versions are known as application
updates and play an essential role in
maintaining the software's functionality
and security
the operating system is the backbone of
your computer managing all program and
Hardware
Communications with numerous Hardware
vendors releasing new devices regularly
the operating system and other
applications must update themselves to
ensure compatibility what's more as it's
a core component of your computer if any
vulnerabilities are found in the
operating system it can have severe
consequences for you and your
organization as a result major operating
systems receive regular security updates
to address newly discovered bugs and
vulnerabilities besides security and Bug
fixes application updates are also
required to ensure Regulatory Compliance
with industry standards and legal
requirements helping you avoid penalties
and legal issues but what types of
application updates can take place these
application updates can be categorized
into three types firstly feature updates
bring exciting enhancements additional
functionalities and improved user
experiences they introduce Innovative
tools ref designs and expanded
capabilities to make your applications
more powerful and userfriendly next are
security patches which are critical
updates that address known
vulnerabilities protecting your software
from exploits malware attacks and
unauthorized access ensuring a secure
digital environment and lastly bug fixes
aim to resolve software glitches
performance issues and user reported
errors ensuring a seamless user
experience and Optimal Performance these
updates can be delivered automatically
manually or even over the air for
instance many applications have
automatic update functionality where the
software automatically checks for
updates and installs them in the
background this approach ensures that
you stay protected and up todate without
having to manually initiate the process
sometimes it comes as an optional
feature that users can enable or disable
anytime or you can update an app
manually by downloading updates from the
software provider's website or
application store users need to manually
download and install these upat dates to
benefit from the latest features
security patches and Bug fixes similarly
overthe a or OTA updates allow you to
download and install updates on your
phone without requiring a computer this
method simplifies the update process
making it more convenient while
application updates are crucial they
come with their own set of challenges
ranging from compatibility issues and
resource constraints to user resistance
and issues with patch management for
example new updates may not always be
compatible with existing Hardware or
other software leading to operational
issues after updating in such cases
before updating applications or
operating systems organizations must
update their Hardware too which incurs
additional cost and hassle you might
also encounter resource constraints when
updating multiple applications across
your organization since they can be
resource intensive in terms of Time
Manpower and system resources
organizations need to allocate
sufficient resources to manage updates
effectively and ensure minimal
disruption
operations you may also face some user
resistance if certain users or
organizations fail to prioritize updates
considering them as low importance this
can leave systems exposed to security
vulnerabilities and performance
limitations raising awareness about the
significance of updates and their
benefits is vital in addressing this
Challenge and lastly patch management
can ensure a timely deployment of
updates across all systems and
applications it can be challenging to
coordinate and track updates across a
large number of devices devices
especially in complex it environments in
conclusion software updates have become
a vital part of maintaining the security
and functionality of your devices by
keeping your software up to date you can
help to stay one step ahead of hackers
and the threat they pose in this video
you learn the importance of application
updates and discover the numerous
security enhancements bug fixes and
performance improvements they offer you
also explored several challenges
organizations face in managing these
updates
bring your own device or BYOD culture
has been growing in recent years due to
its benefits for organizations and
individuals such as increased
productivity and flexibility BYOD
policies however oppose additional risks
to
organizations at Sam Scoops many
employees use their personal devices for
work rated tasks like checking emails
and accessing Company files imagine
however that an employee lost their
phone at a nearby store what would be
the consequences how would company data
be handled in the event of a lost or
stolen device can Sams erase the
sensitive company data remotely are
there strong security measures in place
for example strong passwords or
biometric authentication this video will
bring you through BYOD and explain why a
BYOD policy is necessary within
organizations the associated risks of
BYOD and strategies for managing
application updates and enforcing
security policies to begin let's start
with discovering what exactly BYOD is
BYOD policies have become increasingly
popular in organizations they allow
employees to use their personal devices
for work rated tasks this practice
offers advantages such as flexibility
convenience and a sense of familiarity
as employees can work on devices they
are already comfortable with by
embracing BYOD organizations Empower
their employees to work and be
productive from any location and at any
time leading to an improved work life
balance it can lead to a reduction in
Hardware cost C for an
organization however despite these
benefits the BYOD movement carries
certain risks ranging from security data
and compliance concerns to compatibility
issues for instance the use of personal
devices exposes organizations to
security
vulnerabilities data may also be
compromised if a device is lost or
stolen malware infections could spread
to the organization's Network and
unauthorized individuals could access
sensitive data since personal devices
may not have the same level of security
as own devices they can be more
susceptible to breaches or an increased
risk of data leakage when employees use
store or Transfer Company data on
personal
devices which could be caused by
unauthorized access open Wi-Fi networks
or inadequate data
encryption concerns about compliance
also exist since organizations must
comply with data security and privacy
regulations since BYOD involves managing
data on personal devices compliance can
be harder to achieve different
application versions or configurations
may also be necessary depending on the
device and operating system being used
leading to compatibility issues with
company data incompatible applications
May corrupt data too a lack of
consistency in application updates
across devices may also compromise
performance and reduce security but how
would a BYOD policy be implemented let's
explore the key steps firstly determine
how it can enhance productivity
flexibility and cost efficiency set the
scope of the BYOD policy specifying
allowed devices and work rated
activities next conduct a comprehensive
risk assessment to identify potential
vulnerabilities and risks associated
with Bood now create a concise Bood
policy with guidelines expectations and
consequences next establish device
management systems you should then
provide comprehensive training to
educate employees about the wiod policy
security best practices and their
responsibilities next Implement strong
security measures like enforcing strong
passwords and multiactor
authentication then before launch take a
small group of employees to test
evaluate and adjust the BYOD policy as
required BYOD activities should be
monitored and audited regularly to
ensure compliance with the policy lastly
all employees should receive ongoing
training and updates as you discovered
earlier software updates have become a
vital part of maintaining the security
and functionality of devices but how do
organ ganizations with the BYOD policy
handle application updates there are a
few methods available to them first a
mobile device management or MDM solution
enables organizations to remotely manage
and secure employee devices they allow
for centralized application updates
security configurations and data wipe
capabilities if a device is lost or
stolen next is training organizations
educate employees about the importance
of keeping their devices and
applications up to date regular updates
include security p bches that address
vulnerabilities and ensure a higher
level of protection last is deploying
app white listing and black listing
these techniques help organizations
control the applications that can be
installed on employee devices
whitelisting allows only approved
applications to be installed reducing
the risk of malicious software
blacklisting prohibits certain
applications known to pose security
risks or compliance issues this video
delved into the world of BYOD for
organizations you gained an
understanding of what BYOD is and why a
BYOD policy is necessary you also
explored the potential risks associated
with BYOD policies and discovered the
impact of these policies on application
updates You Now understand the vital
role of employee training and awareness
in maintaining application security by
arming yourself with this knowledge you
are now equipped to navigate the risks
associated with BYOD and ensure a secure
and productive environment for your
organization well done and
congratulations on making it through
another week you you've been working
really hard and now have an
understanding of threats related to data
transmission and the techniques used to
prevent them two new types of threats
called AP and iot threats security
controls including firewall
configuration and intrusion detection
securing endpoints the devices and
computers used by the individual persons
and why it is very important and the
advantages of using application software
updates to keep your apps and operating
systems up to date this week's content
is probably fresh in your mind but it
never hurts to go over the most
important points again so let's step
back through the week to make sure you
are prepared for the module quiz you
started your Learning Journey by
completing an overview of data
transmission threats exploring how a
man-in-the middle attack takes place
before taking a deep dive into SSL
stripping and replay attacks you then
read through the tools that are used for
intercepting data transmissions for
legitimate and malicious purposes these
included amongst others wire shark cane
and able e cap and TCP dump next you
examined virtual private networks or
vpns and discovered how they are used to
protect data transmitted over public
networks you also explored the different
types of VPN protocols and the benefits
and limitations of each you followed
this by learning about advanced
persistent threats or APS and the
various stages that occur during an AP
attack you then examine some notable AP
attacks that have occurred in the recent
past you also gained insight into the
concept of iot threats and how they are
used to gain unauthorized access access
to your devices to perform malicious
activities like DDOS attacks or be a
part of a butn net Network and also
explore the various tools and
Technologies for protecting yourself
against them building upon your
introduction to data transmission
threats you then gained a deeper
understanding of firewalls learning how
a correctly optimized firewall can
enhance security and network performance
by filtering malicious traffic you also
discover the importance of rule
prioritization and the ongoing auditing
and monitoring of your firewall
you then read through a step-by-step
guide on configuring your firewall
within Windows and Mac OS it's important
to remember that firewall configuration
is an ongoing process and is a must for
ensuring strong network security
following that you studi network
segmentation and observed that Network
segmentation is an important aspect of
network architecture for organizations
with large networks to
maintain through Network segmentation
organizations can protect systems and
sensitive data from potential threats
you then moved on to learn that in
cusion detection and prevention system
or idps is a software or Hardware based
security that monitors Network traffic
and system activities to identify
potential security breaches and use this
to create an emergency response system
you explored the various components of
idps including sensors analyzers
database and user interface and
discovered that idps offers benefits
including early threat detection and
network visibility you then had an
opportunity to complete your very own
exercise where you examined a network
infrastructure and identified areas
where Network segmentation could improve
security you also created a plan
detailing how to implement Network
segmentation to address the identified
use cases you followed this by observing
an Exemplar of how this exercise should
be completed learning how a network
segmentation plan offers substantial
benefits in terms of improved security
and potential performance enhancements
the final part of the week demonstrated
the importance of completing software
and application updates you explored the
VAR types of updates including feature
updates security patches and Bug fixes
and discovered the methods for delivery
like automatic or manual updating at
this stage you understood that software
updates had become a vital part of
maintaining the security and
functionality of your
devices lastly you walked through bring
your own device or BYOD risks you gained
a solid understanding of what BYOD is
and why it's necessary within
organizations you learned about the
risks associated with BYOD policies and
the impacts they they can have on
application updates you also explored
several strategies for managing
application updates in BYOD environments
including mobile device management
employee education and app whitelisting
to reinforce your learning this week you
also participated in several inv video
questions and knowledge checks you've
learned a huge amount about Network and
device-based threats and as you approach
the module quiz consider going through
some of the key learning material again
to reinforce your understanding looking
ahead you will begin to expand your
knowledge of network security by diving
into security compliance and identity
where you will learn all about managing
identities and ensuring compliance with
regulations you will also explore
several defense models to support your
network security best of
luck for most people wearing a seat belt
is a proactive approach to road safety
and while seat belts can't stop an
accident from happening they can
significantly reduce the risk of harm
similarly security compliance measures
are put in place to protect data it
doesn't eliminate all cyber security
risks but dramatically mitigates the
chances of data breaches and their
consequences in this video you'll
explore the importance of security
compliance and gain insight into the
different laws and regulations that
drive it to set the foundation let's
first understand what security
compliance is security compliance refers
to the process of adhering to a set of
specific laws regulations and guidelines
designed to protect data and information
systems it's a comprehensive approach
that encompasses safeguarding data
controlling who has access to it and
managing how it's shared and stored it's
a way of ensuring that data isn't just
stored but stored responsibly and
securely but why is security compliance
so important data is like Precious Cargo
it holds sensitive information and is a
valuable asset that organizations must
protect failing to comply with
established security standards can lead
to Hefty fines potential legal action
and a significant loss of reputation and
customer trust security compliance is
not just about following rules and
implementing them it's about
safeguarding the future of a business
there are numerous laws and regulations
that govern data security and privacy
worldwide in Europe the general data
protection regulation or gdpr sets rules
for how businesses handle European
citizens data similarly in the US laws
such as the health insurance portability
and accountability act or Hippa are in
place to protect the privacy of your
medical information violations of these
regulations often carry significant
fines for instance under gdpr companies
can be fined up to 4% of their annual
Global revenue or 20 million EUR
whichever is higher for serious
violations violations of HIPPA can also
result in substantial penalties with a
maximum fine of 1.5 million usar per
year for violations of an identical
provision the specific amount of the
fine usually depends on the nature of
the violation the severity of the data
breach whether the company has a history
of previous violations and whether the
company took adequate steps to prevent
and address the breach there are many
other regulations around the world gdpr
and Hippa serve as examples of the
importance of understanding and
following data security and privacy laws
that apply to you and your organization
along with laws and regulations industry
standards and best practices are
designed to ensure data security for
example the payment card industry data
security standard or PCI DSS mandates
that businesses maintain a secure
environment for handling credit card
data similarly the iso 20 701 standard
outlines specific requirements for
establishing implementing maintaining
and continually improving an information
security management system these
standards provide a benchmark for
businesses to strive towards in their
security efforts security compliance
takes on additional complexities in the
realm of international e-commerce
different countries have unique
regulations and businesses operating
globally must comply with them for
instance an online retailer operating in
multiple countries would need to comply
with local data protection regul
regulations in each of these countries
it's a challenging task but absolutely
necessary to ensure secure and lawful
Operations Security compliance laws and
regulations have a significant impact on
business practices they dictate how
businesses should collect store process
and secure customer data non-compliance
doesn't just lead to legal issues it can
also cause operational disruptions
Financial penalties and reputational
damage this is why thorough
understanding and adherence to these
laws and reg ulations are crucial for
smooth business operations with that
being said compliance is not a
destination it's a journey it involves
understanding the applicable laws and
standards assessing your current
security posture implementing necessary
controls and conducting regular audits
to ensure ongoing compliance it's a
continuous process of learning
implementing checking and improving the
importance of security compliance in
modern business operations cannot be
stressed enough it's a commitment to
data protection
customer trust and business Integrity
while it's understandable that the
complexities especially in international
e-commerce might seem overwhelming it
becomes a navigable Journey with a
dedicated strategy consistent efforts
and expert guidance so embrace the
compliance Journey not just as a legal
obligation but as a Cornerstone of your
business's reputation and customer trust
remember every step you take towards
compliance is a step towards a more
secure and trusted
company risk management and compliance
these two crucial pillars of business
operations are vital to the success of
organizations across all sectors
regardless of their size take Sam Scoops
for example as the business continues to
expand it means that the volume of
customer data Financial records and
employee information will
increase if Sam doesn't take appropriate
action to protect this data she not only
exposes the business to security threats
but also carries the risk of legal
consequences over the next few minutes
you'll discover how risk management
strategies and compliance contribute to
the success and sustainability of
organizations regardless of their scale
or industry so let's start with
understanding what risk management and
compliance actually entail risk
management is a systematic process of
identifying evaluating and taking
appropriate actions to mitigate or
control organizational risks it revolves
around making well-considered decisions
to reduce the negative impacts of
threats and uncertainties on business
operations to the lowest possible level
compliance on the other hand is about
ading strictly to a specific set of
rules these could be laws and
regulations standards or guidelines
pertinent to your business for example
in Sam's case risk management involves
identifying and reducing risks
associated with customer data Financial
records and employee information while
compliance means following laws
standards and regulations on data
privacy and financial reporting
non-compliance could result in
operational disruptions Financial
penalties and damage to Sam scoop's
reputation now that you understand what
risk management and compliance are let's
explore how risk management takes form
risk management generally involves four
phases identification assessment
response and monitoring and Reporting
the process begins with identifying
potential risks in all key areas using
information from various sources such as
interviews vulnerability scans and
incident reports then in the assessment
phase each risk is evaluated based on
impact likelihood and controlled
efficiency impact refers to potential
damage to the company likelihood
measures the probability of the risk
occurring and controlled efficiency
assesses the effectiveness of
implemented mitigation strategies the
combination of these metrics provides a
risk score which is presented to key
stakeholders for verification for
example a risk heat map can be used to
facilitate risk assessment it visually
represents risks categorized by impact
and likelihood this graphical tool
simplifies complex data allowing
stakeholders to prioritize risks and
make make well-informed
decisions next the response phase
involves developing and implementing
strategies to mitigate identified risks
depending on the nature and potential
impact of the risk strategies may
include risk avoidance reduction sharing
or acceptance this is also where
compliance plays a vital role compliance
management ensures that an organization
operates within legal and ethical
boundaries minimizing the potential
negative impact of risks it covers three
major areas regulatory compliance
corporate governance and ethical conduct
but what does their role entail in this
critical phase of responding to risks
Regulatory Compliance comes down to
following industry specific laws and
regulations that apply to your
organization by complying with these
rules you can address risks linked to
non-compliance such as Financial
penalties or legal
consequences corporate governance
focuses on the rules practices and
processes that guide a company's
operations it promotes fairness
transparency and accountability ility
within the
organization effective corporate
governance ensures that risk management
strategies align with your
organization's overall objectives and
values now let's talk about ethical
conduct it goes beyond what's legally
required and focuses on doing what's
morally right ethical Behavior involves
maintaining Integrity fairness and
transparency in all aspects of your
business by integrating ethical conduct
into your risk response strategies you
can build trust with stakeholders and
minimize reputational risks additionally
an effective compliance program includes
employee training regular monitoring and
auditing of compliance practices this
brings us to the final phase of the risk
management cycle monitoring and
Reporting involve continuously tracking
and communicating the identified risks
to relevant stakeholders various
strategies such as security monitoring
and periodic risk reviews are employed
to gather data for performance
indicators and reports this information
informs future risk decisions the
combination of risk management and
compliance help organizations can
Safeguard their operations and protect
sensitive data for Sam Scoops this means
using risk management strategies to spot
and treat risks before they cause major
damage and maintain compliance to reduce
the chance of operational disruptions
Financial penalties and damage to the
business's reputation all in all risk
and compliance management boil down to
implementing and maintaining proactive
measures to manage risk and ensure
compliance with laws and regulations
Paving the way for long-term
success have you ever encountered
pop-ups asking for your permission to
use cookies when you visit a website
perhaps you find yourself mindlessly
clicking accept just to make them
disappear but did you know they are a
direct result of the gdpr a regulation
that's all about protecting your online
privacy but what are these browser
cookies you've been agreeing to why are
they such a big deal and how does the
gdpr come into play in this video you'll
learn the answers to these questions and
discover how gdpr keeps your privacy
intact while still letting you enjoy the
wonders of the internet
but before you dive into the details
let's clear the dough off the table
browser cookies or HTTP cookies are
small bite-sized pieces of data that
websites store on your computer their
main function is to remember you and
your preferences for a specific website
they're the reason you don't have to log
in every time you visit your favorite
site and why you don't lose items in
your online shopping cart even if you
accidentally close the browser plus
these cookies can even help show you ads
that match your browsing habits but hey
every Hero has its quirks and privacy
concerns are one of the challenges
cookies face that's where the gdpr steps
in to save the day the gdpr has
completely transformed privacy laws and
put the power back into the hands of the
individuals like you but how does it
relate to those seemingly innocent
browser cookies you encounter on a daily
basis simply put the gdpr recognizes
cookies as personal data if they have
the potential to identify you either
directly or indirectly this means that
companies have a responsibility to
obtain explicit and informed consent
before they store access these cookies
the gdpr requires companies to be
upfront about why they're collecting
your data how it will be used and
whether it will be shared with third
parties it's all about transparency and
the law that mandates it this is why
you're often greeted with a cookie
Banner when you visit a website this
popup informs you that the site uses
cookies and provides options for you to
accept reject or customize the level of
cookies you're comfortable with it's no
longer about informing you that cookies
are being used instead it's about
obtaining explicit consent and providing
an option to reject the gdpr has made it
mandatory for companies to respect your
preferences giving you the right to
control which cookies you allow while
this may seem like a minor change it
represents a significant shift in the
power dynamics between businesses and
users prioritizing your privacy and data
protection as a user over the business's
needs cookies with gdpr in hand empowers
you to access your personal data while
while allowing you to withdraw your
consent at any time the implementation
of gdpr hasn't been without challenges
though especially for businesses
adapting to these regulations has
required significant changes in
practices and infrastructure businesses
have had to invest time resources and
funds to ensure gdpr compliance they
have had to re-evaluate their data
collection strategies Implement new
procedures and often redesign their
websites to accommodate cookie consent
banners however despite these challenges
the gdpr also presents opportunities by
fostering transparency and Trust
businesses can build stronger
relationships with their customers it
encourages a more ethical approach to
data collection and usage which in the
long term can lead to more sustainable
business practices while browser cookies
are integral to providing a seamless
user experience on the internet their
potential misuse for invasive tracking
and profiling necessitates protective
measures thanks to the gdpr companies
are now required to obtain explicit
consent before storing or accessing
these cookies transparency is key as
they must inform you about the reasons
for data collection its intended use and
any sharing with third parties this
empowers you with greater control over
your personal data so the next time
you're eager to get that cookie Banner
out of the way take a moment to
appreciate how it works hand inhand with
a gdpr to safeguard your
privacy when you think about identity
what's the first thing that comes to
mind do you visualize yourself or do you
perhaps reflect on the qualities that
make you who you are are whether it's
your physical attributes or personal
characteristics your identity is what
sets you apart but when it comes to
information security identity
encompasses much more than that it's a
fundamental concept vital in ensuring
authorized access to organizational
resources understanding identity and
adopting best practices for identity
management can significantly reduce the
risk of unauthorized access and breaches
that's why this video will introduce you
to the importance of identity management
and how it safeguards organizational
resources so let's start by addressing a
fundamental question what exactly does
identity mean in cyber security identity
refers to the distinctive representation
or digital Persona of a user or a system
within a given Network this Persona
isn't just a name it could be a username
an email address a role or a combination
of several unique attributes that
collectively represent an individual
entity within the system it's much like
your fingerprint in the digital world
unique and specific to you allowing you
to differentiate yourself from others in
the system but identity does not
necessarily refer only to people it can
also refer to a software application a
server a device or a network
infrastructure
component each of these entities
possesses a unique identity that enables
secure and controlled interactions with
other components in the system for
example let's say Ashley needs to access
data from Sam scoop server in this case
Ashley's identity is represented by a
username and password while the server's
identity is represented by an IP address
this is where identity management comes
in to accurately Define verify and
govern these identities to ensure secure
interactions between them identity
management isn't merely about knowing
who or what the entities are it's also
about ensuring the appropriate entities
have the right level of access to the
right resources at the right time but it
doesn't stop there identity management
encompasses the entire life cycle of
digital identities within a system it
starts with creating an identity when a
new user or ass system component is
added to the network then it involves
maintaining and updating the identity
adjusting access rights as required or
revoking them when they're no longer
needed now what about the tools that
facilitate this process active directory
is a Microsoft service that is a pivotal
component in identity management it
serves as a virtual directory for your
network organizing and controlling data
access and managing user interactions
throughout the system think of it like a
digital phone book for your network
storing directory data in a structured
way and offering services to manage
resources effectively from users and
services to systems and other network
resources active directory manages
secure and controlled interactions
between them but that's not all active
directory is integral to user
authentication and
authorization it verifies users
credentials against its database and
upon successful validation it checks
their permissions to determine their
access levels this approach supports the
principle of least privilege granting
users only the access necessary to
perform their tasks now let's explore
why this concept of Access Control is
considered a core element of identity
management Access Control empowers you
to manage and control entity permissions
in a digital environment by affirming
and enforcing user or system identities
before granting access it ensures that
only authorized entities can access
network resources simply put Access
Control allows you to determine and
verify who is requesting access and
ensures that only authorized entities
can reach what they are permitted to
this critical Safeguard regulates access
to resources strengthening the
authorization process and enhancing
overall digital security another
significant aspect of identity
management is identity Federation your
digital identity consists of
characteristics that identify you as a
unique individual navigating the virtual
world a Federated identity involves a
mutual understanding between entities
regarding interpreting and utilizing
these
characteristics think of a time you used
an existing account to register a new
account for a different website
like using your Google account to sign
up for an online streaming
service this is Federated identity at
work it enables you to log in at one
location and seamlessly switch to
another without the need to log in again
identity Federation signifies a set of
agreements protocols and Technologies
enabling you to use a single digital
identity to access resources across
multiple security domains from different
Enterprises this process forms an
essential component of creating a
cohesive userfriendly and secure digital
environment by using a single set of
credentials to access different systems
or applications instead of having to
manage multiple usernames and passwords
identity Federation allows for enhanced
security by reducing the need for
repeated logins identity management is
an indispensible element in maintaining
the integrity and security of an
organization's Resources by implementing
best practices such as active directory
for authentication rigorous access
control for authorization and identity
Federation for cross-domain access
you and your organization can build a
resilient defense against potential
cyber
threats managing multiple usernames and
passwords for various online services
compose a daunting challenge for users
this necessity has led to a growing
concern for both personal and
organizational data security giving rise
to the solution known as single sign on
or SSO for short this increasingly
popular technology facilitates a more
streamlined and secure method of
managing digital identities in this
video you will expl explore the concept
of SSO its inherent benefits and the
potential drawbacks associated with its
use SSO is an Innovative authentication
scheme that allows you to log into
multiple yet distinct software systems
using a single set of
credentials the process simplifies the
authentication experience significantly
reducing the number of instances you
must provide login information to access
various applications and services for
example let's say you use different
online services and applications to
complete work-related tasks every day
each of these systems requires you to
remember a unique username and password
combination keeping track of all the
different login credentials can be
challenging and you might agree that
this can be a challenging and
frustrating experience with SSO you can
access all the required systems and
applications using a single set of
credentials eliminating the need to
remember multiple usernames and
passwords there are several other
compelling benefits of SSO SSO
drastically improves user experience by
removing the necessity to remember
multiple sets of login credentials by
enhancing convenience SSO boosts
productivity and minimizes the
occurrence of account lockouts triggered
by incorrect password entries on an
organizational level the adoption of SSO
can lead to substantial cost savings it
eliminates a significant proportion of
password related issues thereby reducing
the workload on it help desk teams as a
result they can redirect their focus
towards Mission critical tasks then SSO
can also boost security measures it
discourages poor security practices such
as using weak or repeated passwords
across various platforms what's more SSO
enables organizations to centrally
enforce Advanced security measures such
as multiactor authentication and
biometric verification for it
administrators SSO allows for enhanced
visibility and control over user access
this makes it easier to manage and
monitor user permissions ensuring
adherence to internal policies and
compliance with external regulatory
requirements while SSO offers many
benefits it's just as important to
consider its potential drawbacks a
significant concern is that SSO could
create a single point of failure if a
malicious entity were to compromise the
SSO credentials it could potentially
gain access to all linked applications
and services another concern is SSO
dependency if the SSO system experiences
downtime or an outage it could prevent
users from accessing all dependent
systems thereby causing significant
disruption to workflows given that SSO
allows for user activity tracking across
multiple platforms there could be
potential privacy concerns despite the
various potential downsides associated
with the use of single signon they are
by no means expected with careful
planning strategic measures and the
application of rigorous security
protocols these drawbacks can be
considerably mitigated implementing
robust security protocols can go a long
way towards preventing unauthorized
access this includes the use of
encryption techniques to secure data
making it far less likely that sensitive
information can be intercepted and
exploited by malicious
entities additionally implementing
two-factor authentication or even
multiactor authentication further
bolsters security by requiring users to
provide two or more pieces of evidence
to verify their identity before gaining
access regular system maintenance and
backup systems are also crucial factors
in mitigating the disadvantages of SSO
regular audits updates and patches
ensure that the system remains current
with the latest security advancements
and protects against newly discovered V
vulnerabilities finally addressing the
privacy concerns related to SSO requires
strict adherence to local and
international data privacy regulations
SSO providers must prioritize
transparency about their data collection
processing and storage practices
informing users of the extent and
purpose of their data usage with these
strategies in hand single signon emerges
as a powerful and practical solution for
managing multiple digital identities by
offering enhanced user convenience
reducing administrative burdens
improving security and providing
comprehensive control and compliance IT
addresses many of the challenges
presented by the traditional username
password system while the potential for
a single point of failure system
dependency and privacy concerns
underscores the importance of careful
implementation these risks can be
significantly mitigated through the
adoption of stringent security protocols
regular system maintenance and a strong
commitment to privacy regulations
therefore despite its potential
downsides the overarching benefits of
SSO position as an instrumental tool in
the progression towards a more secure
and streamlined digital
environment so far you have explored the
fundamental concepts of active directory
in group policy understanding how they
function to manage user identities and
control access to organizational
resources now let's delve deeper into
these essential tools and explore how
they can be effectively used to
streamline user management and enhance
security to understand how active
directory works it's essential to First
familiarize yourself with its key
components including domains domain
controllers organizational units and
Trust relationships domains are logical
containers within active directory that
group and organize resources each domain
has its own unique domain name and
maintains a separate security boundary
domain controllers are servers that run
the active directory domain Services
role they authenticate users enforce
security policies and replicate
directory across the network
organizational units are containers
Within domains that help organize and
manage resources based on administrative
needs they provide a way to delegate
administrative Authority and apply Group
Policy settings trust relationships
establish connections between domains to
enable secure resource sharing and
authentication across different parts of
the network now that you have explored
the key components of active directory
let's focus on understanding Group
Policy this integral aspect of
Microsoft's active directory service
empowers administrators with a versatile
tool set for managing user and computer
environments across an Enterprise
Network as you may recall Group Policy
allows for the centralized management
and control of operating systems
applications and user settings in an
active directory environment by setting
up policies administrators can ensure
consistent security and configuration
settings across all users and computers
within the network eliminating the need
for manual configuration on each
individual machine now let's explore the
key elements that enables this
functionality Group Policy object s or
GPO for short gpos are fundamental
elements of the Microsoft active
directory framework and serve as the
primary means for administrators to
manage and configure various settings
across a network they enforce specific
settings on systems or users associated
with active directory object these
settings are bundled together within
gpos and are created using the group
policy Management console the policies
within gpos can dictate a wide range of
parameters and settings this includes
system configuration
where administrators can Define settings
for options such as registry values
security settings scripts and software
installation all within a single GPO in
terms of Security gpos provide a way for
administrators to enforce robust
network-wide security standards these
can range from setting password policies
specifying user rights and auditing
settings among others with Azure Active
Directory Group Policy settings are
applied in a hierarchical manner to
determine which settings take precedence
starting with the local group policy on
individual computers followed by site
domain and OU level policies the
settings defined in higher level
policies can be overridden by lower
level policies allowing for granular
control over configuration in addition
to configuration management active
directory plays a crucial role in
managing user identities within an
organization providing features for
creating modifying and disabling user
accounts as well as managing
authentication and authorization
administrators can also enforce password
policies to enhance security defining
requirements such as minimum password
length complexity and expiration periods
by implementing strong password policies
organizations can mitigate the risk of
unauthorized access due to compromised
or weak passwords controlling access to
network resources is another key
function of active directory in group
policy through group policy
administrators can manage file and
folder permissions regulate printer
access and streamline software
deployment
by defining granular permissions for
files and folders on network shares
administrators can ensure data
confidentiality and prevent unauthorized
access overall the combination of Group
Policy settings in active directory
empowers administrators to efficiently
manage user identities enforce security
policies and control access to network
resources within an organization by
understanding the key components of
active directory such as domain
controllers domains organizational units
and Trust relationships administrators
can establish establish a secure and
organized Network
environment Group Policy as a
centralized management feature empowers
administrators to enforce consistent
security measures and configuration
settings throughout the network with the
ability to manage user identities
Implement password policies and control
access to resources active directory and
kup policy provide organizations with
the necessary tools to enhance security
streamline user management and maintain
data
confidentiality there is no one-size
fits-all solution to the Myriad security
threats organizations and individuals
face instead a multifaceted layered
approach is needed to boost the defense
against various attack vectors in this
video you will explore the concept of
Defense in depth a strategic and layered
approach to cyber security defense in
depth is a strategy that employs a
series of protective mechanisms to slow
the advance of an attack aimed at
acquiring unauthorized access to
information each layer adds a protective
barrier ensuring that subsequent layers
are ready to mitigate the impact and
prevent further intrusion even if one is
preached Microsoft employs this layered
security approach in its physical data
centers and Azure Services the primary
objective is to protect information and
prevent unauthorized access the
confidentiality integrity and
availability principles often called the
CIA Triad guide this approach to defense
in depth confidentiality is about
ensuring the access to information is
restricted to authorized individuals
this principle is upheld by protecting
user passwords encrypting sensitive data
and securing email content Integrity
involves preventing unauthorized
information changes whether at rest or
in transit techniques like one-way
hashing algorithms Safeguard data
Integrity which generates a unique
fingerprint of the data ensuring it
hasn't been tampered with during
transmission availability the third
pillar of the CIA Triad ensures that
services and resources are accessible to
authorized users whenever needed
mechanisms such as redundancy failover
protocol and geographical dispersal of
resources are employed to maintain
continuous service availability and
minimize single points of failure now
that you know the principles guiding the
defense in- depth approach let's explore
its different layers the first layer
focuses on protecting data which is
often the primary target for attackers
whether in databases disk storage cloud
storage or SAS applications
organizations must ensure that data is
properly secured according to regulatory
requirements the second layer focuses on
securing applications as they serve as
crucial gateways to data so it's vital
that they are developed securely free
from vulnerabilities and that they
handle sensitive data appropriately
integrating security considerations
throughout the application development
life cycle is just as essential the
third layer is compute this layer
focuses on the security of virtual
machines and endpoint devices it is
crucial to secure access Implement
endpoint protection
and keep systems up to date then you
have the network layer that focuses on
controlling and limiting communication
to prevent unauthorized access and
lateral movement within the network
network segmentation and access controls
can restrict communication to what's
strictly
necessary next is the perimeter this
layer is about shielding your network
from large scale attacks from the
outside implementing distributed denial
of service protection and perimeter
firewalls can help identify mitigate and
raise alerts for potential attacks the
perimeter layer is followed by identity
and access this layer controls access to
infrastructure and Records events and
changes robust access controls such as
single sign on and multiactor
authentication ensure that only
authorized individuals can access
resources finally physical security
brings the defense model full circle
this stage involves preventing
unauthorized physical access to assets
which can bypass other security layers
if not appropriately safeguarded
measures such as biometric access
controls for data centers fall under
this layer defense in depth offers a
robust layered security strategy crucial
for navigating the complex cyber threat
landscape it incorporates data
protection secure application
development secure Computing resources
controlled network access fortified
Network perimeter managed identity and
access and physical security measures by
employing defense in depth organizations
can significantly enhance their
resilience against cyber threats
ensuring their digital assets
confidentiality integrity and
availability in an era where security
breaches happen all too frequently who
can you truly trust with your data the
traditional models that once assured
protection are proving to be inefficient
it's time for a paradigm shift a model
that challenges the very notion of trust
in this video you'll discover the zero
trust model a new approach to data
security that goes beyond products and
services built on the principles of
verify explicitly use leas privilege
access and assume breach this model
signifies a fundamental transformation
in security practices so let's learn
about this model that redefines the
concept of trust the first principle
verify explicitly emphasizes the
importance of continuous authentication
and authorization based on all available
data points it is not good enough to
know who is trying to access your
network you also need to know their
device their location and more the
second principle least privilege access
means limiting user access with just in
time and just enough access policies
these policies restrict access to what's
needed for a specific task reducing the
potential impact of a breach the final
principle assume breach involves taking
a defensive stance by minimizing the
area of impact segmenting access
verifying end encryption and using
analytics to drive threat detection and
improv defenses now let's explore the
six critical elements that must be
secured to ensure a robust zero trust
model identities devices applications
data infrastructure and networks
identities define the zero trust model
strong authentication is essential to
validate the identity of individuals
attempting to access
resources all devices including iot
devices and npoints need to be monitored
and protected to minimize potential
attack surfaces applications and apis
need security controls to discover
Shadow it activities like unauthorized
apps on corporate devices monitor for
abnormal behavior and validates secure
configuration options classify label
encrypt data and restrict access based
on these attributes to ensure data
remains secure even outside the
organization's control from on-premises
servers to cloud-based virtual machines
infrastructure is a critical threat
Factor Harden defense with assessment
and Telemetry to detect attacks and
anomalies and take automatic protective
actions Network segmentation real-time
threat protection and endtoend
encryption are necessary to provide
critical controls to prevent attackers
lateral movements in in a network
finally a component that applies to all
pillars is the principle of visibility
Automation and orchestration this
principle AIDS in managing the influx of
data and alerts from the different areas
allowing you to better defend against
threats and validate trust now that you
understand the zero trust models key
principles and pillars let's explore how
it can make a difference in a company
like Sam Scoops traditionally Sam would
trust employees inside the store
assuming they will only access the
resources and Equipment they need but
what happens if an employee breaches
that trust damaging resources or causing
a data breach by tampering with
resources they weren't supposed to this
is a real world parallel to the
traditional network security models
where trust is assumed once inside the
network the zero trust model on the
other hand adopts a strict approach of
continual validation and exemplifies the
saying never trust always verify for Sam
Scoops adopting the zero trust model
would bring a new level of data security
and protection for instance Sam can
Implement multifactor authentication to
ensure only authorized employees with
approved devices can access the network
and sensitive data this is especially
important for employees who use their
own devices or work outside the confines
of traditional firewalls in the zero
trust approach every attempt to access
resources is carefully checked
regardless of whether it's from inside
or outside the network then following
the principle of lease privilege Sam can
grant employees access only to the
specific systems and data necessary for
their roles for example the cashier can
access the point of salees system but
not the inventory management system
finally Sam can take a proactive
approach to minimize the impact of a
potential breach by dividing systems and
data into separate segments or zones she
can also use physical Hardware like
security cameras is to ensure complete
visibility and monitoring of the store
premises the zero trust model offers a
layered security strategy it verifies
the user's identity the devic's security
status and the network security posture
every transaction component and access
request are authenticated authorized and
encrypted before access is granted the
zero trust model revolutionizes the
approach to network security in the face
of escalating cyber threats by
incorporating principles such as verify
explicity use leas privilege access and
assume breach organizations like Sam
Scoops can ensure data security and
protection this model represents a
fundamental shift in network security
practices providing a comprehensive
framework for protecting sensitive
information
this week you delved into the essential
concepts of security compliance and
identity management topics crucial in
protecting data and organizations from
cyber security risks let's take a moment
to reflect on the key learning takeaways
compliance is all by following laws
regulations and guidelines to safeguard
data and information systems by
complying with these standards
organizations can significantly reduce
the risk of data breaches and their
consequences non-compliance on the other
hand can lead to to penalties legal
action and damage to reputation and
customer trust laws like gdpr and Hippa
have Global implications for data
security and privacy and violating them
can result in substantial fines then
when it comes to risk management you
learn that it plays a vital role in
ensuring the success and sustainability
of organizations it involves identifying
evaluating and mitigating risks through
a cycle of identification assessment
response and monitoring and Reporting by
effectively managing risks and
maintaining compliance organizations can
protect their operations and data and
build trust with stakeholders you then
learned more about the general data
protection regulation also known as gdpr
a transformative regulation that
empowers individuals by giving them
control over their data one significant
aspect you learned about is how gdpr
recognizes browser cookies as personal
data companies must obtain explicit
consent and provide transparency
regarding data collection use and
sharing what's more the gdpr has made it
mandatory for companies to respect your
preferences giving you the right to
control which cookies you allow next you
covered industry standards and
compliance Frameworks such as ISO
2701 s SO2 pcidss and Hippa ISO 2701
establishes an information security
management system to ensure
comprehensive security practices s SO2
assures clients about adequate data
privacy and security PCL idss combats
credit card fraud while Hippa ensures
privacy standards for health information
you then moved on to identity management
a practice essential for protecting
resources maintaining integrity and
enhancing overall digital security
within organizations identity refers to
the unique digital Persona of entities
within a network including users
applications servers devices and network
components identity management involves
accurately defining verifying and
governing identities throughout their
life cycle
this encompasses creating maintaining
updating and revoking digital identities
you also learned about single sign on or
SSO as a solution to the challenge of
managing multiple usernames and
passwords for various online services it
simplifies the authentication process by
allowing users to log into multiple
software systems using a single set of
credentials enhancing convenience and
reducing the burden on users in the
context of managing user identities and
controlling access to resources you
explored active directory and Group
Policy active directory comprises
domains domain controllers
organizational units and Trust
relationships which help organize and
secure network Resources Group Policy
Ena centralized management and control
of operating systems applications and
user settings by understanding and
leveraging these tools organizations can
efficiently manage user identities and
control access to network resources next
you learned about defense in depth a
strategic and layered approach to cyber
security focusing on various areas such
as data protection secure application
development secure Computing resources
controlled network access fortified
Network perimeter managed identity and
access and physical security measures by
adopting this approach and continuously
improving security measures
organizations can enhance their
resilience against cyber threats you
explored the zero trust model next a
paradigm shift in data security that
challenges traditional Notions of trust
the first principle of the zero trust
model is always verify this means that
authentication and authorization should
happen continuously based on all the
available data points another essential
concept is least privilege it's about
giving users sufficient access only to
what they need for their specific tasks
assuming a breach is also a vital aspect
of the zero trust model it means taking
a defensive approach by minimizing the
area of impact segmenting access
verifying anend encryption and using
analytics to drive threat detection and
improve defenses you also discovered
that when implementing the zero trust
model there are six critical elements to
secure identities end points
applications data infrastructure and
networks each component plays a crucial
role in maintaining a secure environment
and protecting sensitive information
finally you learned that security
operations and monitoring are crucial
for maintaining the integrity and
confidentiality of an organization's
data and it
ecosystem continuous monitoring enables
proactive threat anticipation and
neutral ization facilitated by various
Solutions and systems such as intrusion
detection systems security information
and event management systems and log
Management Solutions by prioritizing
security compliance and identity
management organizations can protect
data mitigate risks and Foster trust
with stakeholders it's an ongoing effort
staying updated with evolving standards
for Effective cyber security practices
is crucial overall understanding and
implementing these Concepts and best
practices are vital to securing
organizations from cyber threats and
ensuring data and resources
confidentiality integrity and
availability you're almost at the finish
line for this course you put a lot of
work into completing the videos readings
quizzes and
exercises and now you better understand
the topics presented including cyber
threats and attacks cryptography Network
and device-based threats and security
compliance and identity Concepts you now
have the opportunity to demonstrate this
learning in the final course project
where you'll integrate the concepts
you've learned to create a security
strategy for Sam
Scoops this exercise will assess your
ability to describe cybercity threat
factors and develop effective mitigation
strategies thereafter you will complete
the final graded assessment which
measures your Mastery of the course
objectives including your ability to
describe the active threat landscape
describe common types of cyber attacks
classify different types of encryption
algorithms and explain security and
compliance Concepts but before you move
on to complete the final assignment an
assessment let's take a moment to
reflect on what you've learned this will
help you assess your understanding of
key topics and enable you to identify
any areas that may require further
exploration before you continue during
the first week you explored cyber
threats and attacks discovering how
these malicious activities can disrupt
operations cause damage and provide
unauthorized access to computers and
networks you then took a deep dive into
threat Landscapes explored various
malware types and discovered how malware
works you also learned meth cyber
criminals use to evade detection you
examined measures to reduce your
personal risk including educating
yourself and verifying the identity of
anyone who contacts you furthermore you
explored threat vectors and can now
explain topics like Insider attacks
Hardware based attacks and typo
squatting you followed this learning by
delving into mitigation strategies you
explored Biometrics and discovered the
range of security software options
available for encrypting
files you also learn that the windows
operating system comes with Microsoft
Defender which offers robust features to
prevent malware and fishing attacks and
a highly capable firewall as you wrapped
up this first week you explored the
critical topic of data loss and Recovery
you explored the several ways data can
be corrupted or destroyed and now know
how to manage and avoid data loss
through the implementation of data
backups in the following week you worked
through the fundamentals of cryptography
you learned how symmetric encryption
uses a shared secret key to encrypt and
decrypt data while asymmetric encryption
uses a pair of public and private Keys
you also learned how hashing takes input
and turns it into a fixed size string of
bytes after that you discovered how
digital signing and signatures use
cryptographic techniques to ensure the
authenticity of electronic documents you
gained insight into digital certificates
which are electronic credentials that
validate the identity of entities to
ensure security you also explored signed
URLs learning how they ensure only
authorized users can access certain
resources to conclude your learning on
cryptography you deepened your
understanding of centralized
authentication and authorization
Concepts this exploration highlighted
the importance of multiactor
authentication a security process that
demands two or more forms of
authentication to verify your identity
you then moved on to learning about
Network and device-based threats you
discovered how critical it is to guard
against these threats and learned the
significance of keeping applications and
software up to date you are introduced
to data transmission threats explor ing
various attack methods and examining
tools used for intercepting data
Transmissions both for legitimate and
malicious purposes next you examined
virtual private networks and discovered
how they are used to protect data
transmitted over public
networks you followed this by learning
about advanced persistent threats you
gained insight into the concept of iot
threats where actors gain unauthorized
access to your iot devices to perform
malicious activities the next lesson
dived into firewalls where you studied a
guide on on configuring your own
firewall on Windows and Mac OS you
learned about intrusion detection and
prevention systems which monitor Network
traffic and system activities to
identify security breaches and prevent
it then by completing a network
segmentation exercise you learned how
organizations can protect systems and
sensitive data from potential threats by
segmenting resources into multiple
networks you also explore the importance
of completing software and application
updates and now you understand how vital
they are for maintaining the security of
your devices you then moved on to learn
about security compliance and identity
Concepts you study the compliance laws
regulations and guidelines safeguarding
data and information systems you learn
that gdpr is a regular that gives
individuals more control over their data
you also covered several industry
standards like ISO 270001 s SO2 PCI DSS
and Hippa you then moved on to learn
that identity management involves
accurately defining verifying and
governing identities throughout their
life cycle you also learned how single
sign on or SSO allows you to use a
single set of credentials to log in into
various online services next you
explored active directory and Group
Policy you learned how ad helps organize
and secure a network resources while
Group Policy enables the centralized
management and control of operating
systems applications and user settings
finally you explore different defense
models you examined how defense in depth
focuses on data protection application
security network controls and physical
security to enhance resilience against
cyber threats you discover the zero
trust model which challenges traditional
Notions of trust and incorporates
principles such as always verify use
least privilege and assume breach your
learning throughout this course has
prepared you to develop effective
mitigation strategies to protect against
evolving cyber threats now you're
finally ready to demonstrate this
learning by completing the course
project and assessment best of luck
congrat congratulations on making it to
the end of this course your hard work
and determination has paid off and
you've shown that you have what it takes
to understand key concepts of cyber
security with this course under your
belt you now have a solid foundation to
build upon as you continue your Learning
Journey you gained an understanding of
the numerous threats the world of cyber
security faces today the common
strategies used to mitigate against them
and the various compliance and
regulations used to enforce them by
successfully completing all the courses
in the Microsoft cyber security anal
program you will receive corsera
certification this program is a great
way to expand your understanding of
cyber security challenges plus gaining a
qualification will allow you to apply
for entry-level jobs in the field all
the courses in this program including
the one you just completed also help you
prepare for the sc900 exam offered by
Pearson view by passing the exam you
will earn Microsoft certification in
security identity and compliance this
globally recognized certification is
industry endorsed evidence of your
technical skills and knowledge the sc900
exam measures your knowledge about
concepts of security compliance and
identity capabilities of Microsoft Azure
active directory or Azure ad as part of
Microsoft entra capabilities of
Microsoft Security Solutions and the
capabilities of Microsoft compliance
solutions to complete the exam you
should be familiar with Microsoft Azure
and Microsoft 365 and understand how
Microsoft security compliance and
identity strategies provides an
end-to-end solution across the platforms
please remember to check out more
information about the exam you can visit
the Microsoft certifications page at
www.learn.cashtracking.com
program offers a diverse selection of
courses each tailored to develop
specific skills and knowledge with
topics like information security access
management identity governance
Enterprise security and authentication
methods the program offers a
comprehensive learning experience
designed to provide you with key
competencies across various Industries
enrolling in another course is a great
opportunity to expand your skill set and
gain expertise in new and exciting areas
of cyber
security whether you're a novice or just
starting out as a technical professional
completing the whole program will show
potential employers that you are
motivated capable and not afraid to
learn new things it's been a joy to
travel this path of Exploration with you
wishing you all the best in the
future you may be aware that a common
vulnerability exploited by cyber
criminals is a weak password if the
password is compromised an attacker can
access a user's account and the
sensitive data it contains this can be
damaging when experienced by an
individual but imagine the harm done
when a breach happens to an organization
with multiple resources and services
linked together on a common Network
because of the sheer number of people
typically accessing the network every
day it can be a Monumental task to
verify that all of them are taking the
correct precautions fortunately as
you'll soon find out there are solutions
that make it simpler to manage large
teams the identity and access Solutions
in Azure ad course is for those who
would like to learn how to use identity
as a means of managing access to and
within an internal Network this course
will specifically cover how to do this
in Azure active directory a cloud-based
identity and access management service
for
Microsoft this solution allows
administrators to set rules that apply
differently depending on such factors as
a user's role and whether resources are
internal or external it also gives
control at both Broad and micro levels
as needed if you have a general
understanding of cyber threats and
approaches for securing networks and
cloud computing environments then you
are ready for this course as your next
step towards becoming a cyber security
analyst or engineer let's go over some
key topics that you need to familiarize
yourself with as you progress you'll
start with an overview of what an on
premises active directory or ad is and
how it is used to manage access to
resour ources in a network you'll find
that despite the security benefits there
is a substantial amount of planning work
and maintenance that goes into setting
up and operating in on premises ad
fortunately there is another solution
for access management that is more
hands-off that solution is azure ad
you'll find that even for an
organization with an on premises ad in
place Azure ad features several tools
that make it easy to transfer critical
information to the cloud such as user
account data and applications you'll
outline the steps for performing this
migration with minimal disruptions to
company operations and you'll compare
the features of different additions so
that you know how to choose the version
that best fits your needs you'll also
explore the concept of identity as it
applies to Azure ad specifically you
will be able to list different identity
types and what abilities and privileges
each one has next you'll become aware of
the authentication methods available in
azuread which include passwords the
Microsoft authenticator app and more
you'll discover that it is particularly
important to enforce a secure
authentication policy when these methods
are combined with a single signon that
enables users to access multiple
connected Services after being
authenticated at one point for further
customization Azure ad also features
multiactor authentication for greater
security and selfservice password reset
for improved
efficiency the next step of your
Learning Journey concerns access to and
within a network as determined by rules
and user roles you'll find out how
administrators can set who has access to
a resource who doesn't and who requires
further
authentication this can be B based on
conditions such as location or risk
level or roles such as user
administrators or billing
administrators additional related
Concepts you'll learn about include
identity governance for updating the
access rights of users who change roles
or leave the organization and privileged
identity management for dynamically
giving users only the minimum access
required finally you'll wrap things up
with a project that will task you with
configuring identity and access policies
for a business to complete this
successfully you'll need to apply the
knowledge you've gained about Azure ad
along the way you'll have several
opportunities to test what you've
learned throughout this course this
includes exercises based on real world
examples along with knowledge checks to
assess your understanding of key
Concepts all of this will help get you
ready for the Microsoft exam sc900 which
you can take after completing this
program a passing score on this exam
will demonstrate that you are ready for
the next stage of your cyber security
Journey good luck by now you're familiar
that software as a service or SAS is a
complete cloud service model that is
centrally hosted and subscription based
an active directory helps a company
manage its employees and Company
resources it grants access to SAS
services in this video you'll learn
about the requirements of an on premises
active directory you'll investigate what
is required when setting up an on
premises active directory or ad Sam
Scoops continues to thrive Sam realizes
that she must evaluate the current it
infrastructure because the business's
need for more staff and devices has
increased she has been made aware of an
active directory as a possible tool for
keeping track of employee access more
easily and decides to explore this
solution further an active directory is
a service task with managing all of the
resources on a network resources can
include various thirdparty software that
companies use such as SAS as well as
customer specific software applications
think about a phone book directory which
has a list of names addresses and phone
numbers it is very easy to query this
directory because it is in alphabetical
order similarly an active directory is
an organized store that includes refer
references to all users computers
printers and any other resources that
are part of a network when a new user
joins a firm they are added to the
active directory all the user
information such as their name email
address Department androll within the
company is uploaded to the system the
administrator then allocates the
necessary user permissions to the system
keeping an active directory allows
administrators to create groups for
users which simplify management tasks
for example an administrator May create
a group called finances which oversees
managing the company's money Affairs
another group may be called floor staff
which is in charge of serving customers
and other frontof house tasks the
Privileges of a member of finances
differs from a member assigned to floor
staff so how do you create an on
premises active directory let's unpack
what is needed to do this first recall
that ad is developed by Microsoft and a
Windows Server like Windows Server 2016
2018 or 2019 is required there are some
open source variations such as open ldap
free IPA and Samba 4 however these
require different configurations with
potentially some additional steps to
integrate with windows-based
applications second active directory
domain services or ADD s is the core
element of active directory that governs
authentication and authorization
Services an essential part of the
directory that links the names to the IP
addresses which are the digital
locations of the services is domain name
system referred to as DNS remember all
you learned about servers earlier in the
program for ad to be effective there
needs to be smooth communication between
all servers and users involved
this is the network infrastructure now
think about Hardware an on premises
implementation requires Hardware to
facilitate the various interactions
another required element is the IP
address schema recall that the schema is
the blueprint or structure and here it
relates to the type of objects that can
be created and how they relate to one
another so active directory design is
configuring the structure of your
directory in other words what are the
various domains and groups What policies
and permissions will be associated with
each domain who needs access to it and
to what degree of access is required for
each group finally you'll need to
configure the appropriate Administration
tools some examples of required tools
include the active directory sites and
services to help manage the physical
location of the company resources and
the active directory users and computers
console which is a tool to create and
manage users accounts groups and
computers associated with your ad so
essentially setting up an on premises ad
requires a server operating system
active directory domain Services DNS
Network infrastructure Hardware IP
address plan active directory design and
the various administrative tools to
maintain and operate the ad
sounds like a lot of work doesn't it
fortunately that doesn't always have to
be the case instead of an on premises
active directory another option is to
use a cloud-based ad these can Implement
many of the previously mentioned steps
automatically providing online access
with ease one such solution is
Microsoft's Azure active directory which
you'll become familiar with soon in this
video you learn that active directory is
is a tool that Network administrators
use to manage users and resources on a
network it simplifies the management of
staff and administrative user
permissions by having one centralized
source to configure authorization and
access implementing an on premises
version can be technically challenging
and requires a dedicated Department to
manage and configure it however you'll
soon discover that a cloud-based ad can
take care of much of this work after
doing some research on the benefits of a
cloud-based active directory Sam has
decided that it is in the best interest
of a rapidly growing company to
transition from an on premises active
directory to Azure
ad however she's still unclear about
what exactly she needs to do to make
this happen she is also worried about
the time needed to transfer user account
data which could mean lost productivity
luckily as Sam will soon discover with
thoughtful planning and the right tools
this process is actually easier than she
thinks in this video you'll go over how
users and devices are imported an
outline of some of the tools used and
some Advanced features when using aad
now let's unpack the four-step migration
process beginning with the premigration
assessment so evaluate the existing ad
infrastructure identify the objects that
need to be migrated and determine any
dependencies on other active services
with the on premises ad it is an
opportunity to perform a detailed
inventory of the objects currently being
managed by the ad these objects include
users groups and devices an organization
will have a range of SAS that are
employed with supporting steps and
documentation that's available
specifically consider the the custom
applications or services that rely on ad
for authentication and authorization
these applications have their own
configuration so if an issue arises the
solution requires extensive
troubleshooting efforts because tailored
applications limit the exposure to the
online community to troubleshoot it
freely the second step is establishing a
connection between the on premises ad
and aure active directory
this can be done using Azure ad connect
which synchronizes user accounts and
passwords from an on premises ad to
Azure ad Azure ad connect also ensures
that any changes made to the on premises
ad are reflected in Azure ad Azure ad
connect works by installing software on
the on premises ad server then it
gathers information on the various users
groups and devices the ad manages and
sends this data to the
aad additionally it also receives
changes made to the aad and syncs them
with the on premises settings aad
connect continues doing this even after
the aad has been
created essentially it acts as a bridge
that keeps both settings in
line now that the aad is created and
aligned with the ad the third step is to
migrate the user accounts and groups
from ad to a
a Microsoft provides many tools that can
achieve this such as the Azure ad
connect tool this tool allows
administrators to select the users and
groups that need to be migrated and
transfer them to the aad and ensures
that all the necessary attributes and
properties are transferred correctly
creating user groups is an advanced
feature of aad note that widen scope and
use depends on the license available to
you another tool that can be used for
migrating users and groups is the active
directory migration tool
admt admt allows you to extract
passwords group memberships and other
attributes associated with users and
groups and duplicate them in the cloud
it can also migrate computers and
contacts registered with the
ad the final step in this process is
migrating any applications and services
that are dependent on ad to a
a this involves reconfiguring the
applications and services to use aad for
authentication and authorization instead
of AD devices and services often have
special configurations relating to how
to join the network Network and what
information they can access here admt
can Implement these aad security
features in this video you unpack the
process for transitioning from an on
premises ad to Azure ad you should now
know the key steps involved which are
conducting a premigration assessment
syncing the on premises ad with Azure ad
migrating users and groups and
integrating applications and services
you are also introduced to several tools
from Microsoft that can help you along
the way this includes Azure ad connect
which synchronizes accounts and
passwords between AD and aad and the
active directory migration tool which
allows for easy duplication and
migration of user and group attributes
now that Sam knows what to expect from
the migration process she can plan
confidently without worrying about lost
time or
productivity previously you learned what
an active directory or ad is and what is
required to create an on premises active
directory implementing an on premises
version can be technically challenging
and requires a dedicated Department to
manage and configure it however it was
mentioned that Azure active directory or
aad is a cloud-based solution that
manages these technicalities in this
video you'll begin outlining the
benefits and advantages of migrating
from an on premises ad to a cloud-based
one such as Azure ad you'll also explore
the role of virtual networks when
performing an ad migration now that Sam
has discovered what an ad is she
continues to research Azure active
directory or aad as an option and what
it means to migrate from ad to
aad she realizes that there's limited
computer knowledge within Sam Scoops to
set up an ad and she may need help from
a development team Sam weighs up the
following benefits of aad so that she
can make an informed decision recall
that ad provides a secure and
centralized management system for the
resources within the company's Network
it supports segregating users and
applications into groups with the option
of granting various access privileges
depending on the information they need
to know in order to fulfill their job
remember the comparison made between a
worker managing the books for the
company and frontof housee staff taking
orders and working the cash register
they each have unique privileges Azure
active directory or aad is a modern way
of managing network resources and users
let's explore the advantages of
aad aad is firstly a cloud-based service
which means that it can be accessed from
anywhere this makes it easier to manage
and access with an on premises
ad additionally it also means that there
is no need to obtain and maintain
physical servers being an online service
it is possible to expand in response to
ongoing change in the number of users
and devices therefore aad is scalable
thirdly consider application integration
having access to the cloud means the
active directory integrates with various
Cloud applications so it is much easier
to incorporate a thirdparty SAS into
business
operations before any AD can be migrated
there are some key considerations to
note let's unpack these further once the
decision is made that it is beneficial
to convert an ad to a more sophisticated
aad it is worth pausing to consider some
factors to ensure success uccessful
transition from an on premises setup to
a cloud-based one companies that decide
to keep both the ad while using the aad
as the primary source maintain a secure
backup which acts as a fail safe in the
event of an unforeseen incident causing
data loss let's prepare by examining
some of these
considerations before transitioning to
aad it is important to practice user
account management by cleaning up exist
ing accounts an account cleanup includes
removing inactive users removing
duplicates and validating contact
information and reviewing account
information you should also consider the
security configuration review all
existing configurations to ensure that
they are appropriate for aad this may
involve updating authentication methods
to make them more applicable to a
cloud-based solution what about
applications that need to be integrated
ensure that you review and assess the
applications that are currently
fulfilling business obligations are
these applications appropriate to a
web-based approach or are there newer
alternative solutions that can be
implemented recall that a cloud-based
solution means a firm can easily
incorporate SAS into the daily running
of the business next directory
synchronization is the process of
copying all the relevant information
from the on premises setup to the
cloud-based solution here's where
Microsoft's azuread connect or aad
connect comes in to facilitate such a
task it is important to ensure that all
the information is copied over properly
a a connect provides the additional
functionality of password and device
right back this means that any changes
made to the aad will be mirrored in the
ad ensuring efficacy in cases is where
it must act as a failsafe solution the
last consideration is user training any
system is only as good as the user
maintaining it it is critical that you
inform and upskill all the staff
operating the system so moving to aad
can provide a company with greater
security by utilizing Microsoft's
expertise in online security it also
gives a company access to easily
Implement SAS into an organization setup
additionally it is beneficial that the
old ad is maintained so it acts as a
fail safe if any issues arise with
aad another question that might come up
for an organization is how to implement
a virtual Network or VN to communicate
between the ad and the aad here the VN
connects the aad and the ad using a VPN
Gateway this allows the organization to
communicate between the two networks
without compromising security the VN can
be configured with security groups and
network specifications to appropriately
control the flow of traffic between
these resources in this video you'll
learn that migrating from ad to aad
offers significant benefits for an
organization wanting to modernize its
infrastructure these benefits include
cohesion scalability and better access
in addition the considerations for
migration include managing user account
information
ensuring that relevant data copies
correctly and eliminating users are data
that's no longer needed the advantages
of directory synchronization were also
proposed finally this video highlighted
the importance of using virtual networks
to maintain safe communication between
the two
directories going online has greatly
enhanced what businesses are capable of
from greater reach and faster
communication to Gathering data that
helps them understand more about their
customers to make all of this possible
it takes a robust Computing environment
and a hardworking it team to maintain it
however a challenge for many businesses
is finding a way to run their online
operations efficiently without
sacrificing security to illustrate the
difficulties that a businessman
encounter let's observe a day in the
life of Gabby Gabby is an IT
administrator for Paws and perks an
online shop for pet suppli
the company's databases servers and
other Computing infrastructure are
located on premises pause and perks
relies on Gabby to keep these systems
running smoothly as well as making sure
the network is protected from any
external
threats a critical part of Gabby's job
is controlling who has access to
specific resources within the network
this is important because it only takes
one unauthorized element gaining entry
to PO potentially cause harm to every
person and device that is connected to
the network Gabby enjoys her work but
she often finds herself stretched thin
much of her time is spent managing
access for individual employees
including every new hire or person who
has shifted to a different role or
department and that doesn't even cover
the external clients who need to view
certain company data Gabby's experience
isn't uncommon and her time management
troubles can lead to other problem
problems these include a higher chance
of errors that can compromise system
security less time available for other
important tasks like applying updates
and reduced overall productivity which
means higher costs for the company so
what can Paws and perks do to make
Gabby's workload more manageable they
may find a solution in aure active
directory this service allows it
administrators like Gabby to take a
rule-based approach to access management
rather than handling every case
individually this means granting
permissions based on factors such as
identity location group membership and
more Gabby can even customize the
security requirements for different
areas in pause and perks Network for
example she might enable users to access
General Resources by logging in with a
password but require additional
authorization for higher risk areas as a
cloud-based service Azure ad can also
benefit Paws and perks in other ways
this includes cutting the high costs for
hardware and software licenses and
increasing scalability with a pay as you
go payment model by switching to Azure
ad pause and perks can Implement a
smarter approach to Identity and access
management that maintains a high
standard of security and allows Gabby to
focus her time and talents on creating a
a smooth and safe online experience for
colleagues clients and
customers by now you're probably aware
of asure active directory a cloud-based
solution for managing access to services
and resources but perhaps Sam from Sam
Scoops has a few questions on her mind
such as does it meet the needs of my
business and can I justify the cost if
she's had these thoughts she'll be glad
to know that Azure ad is offered in
multiple versions to suit companies of
every size and budget in this video
you'll explore the four editions of
azure ad which are the free edition
Office 365 Edition and two separate
premium editions which are labeled as P1
and P2 you'll become aware of the key
features of each version that separates
it from the others and you'll better
understand how an organization can make
a more informed choice note that you'll
encounter some unfamiliar terms and
Concepts along the way but these will be
explored in Greater detail later now
let's find out what you can expect from
each
Edition the Azure ad plans and pricing
web page features a table that outlines
the features that each Edition has and
does not have note that in this table
The Faded check marks indicate partial
feature availability while the full
check marks mean full availability for
example in the free edition of azure MFA
is partially available this means that
it is part of the default security
settings but cannot be configured in
other additions it is fully available
this would allow you to configure the
specific people and instances that
trigger it let's start with Azure ad
free edition which is the basic version
of azure ad that is free to all Azure
customers this Edition provides basic
basic user management and authentication
services for cloud applications it
allows you to create and manage user
accounts synchronize them with on
premises directories and enable simple
logging on for cloud
applications however it has limited
functionality compared to the other
additions for example group management
functionality is minimal and only basic
security reporting is
provided next you have Office 365 apps
which is a paid version of azure ad with
more features than the free
edition the addition comes with any
subscription to a Microsoft 365 product
it includes all the features of the free
edition plus additional features this
includes a customizable user signin page
which allows the page to be personalized
with branding and icons there is also
self-service signin activity search and
Reporting which provides visibility on
who's logging in the Office 365 apps
Edition also supports cloud-based user
authentication for on premises
applications if you're looking for
greater management capabilities Azure ad
premium P1 Edition is a paid version of
azure ad that provides more advanced
features than the Office 365 apps
Edition
this addition includes all those
features plus additional features such
as Dynamic
groups this feature is similar to group
access with the distinction that group
access requires manually assigned users
to a
group dynamic groups can be generated
automatically by analyzing various roles
and permissions assigned to a user and
finding commonalities with other users
the commonality might arise from job
type title department or other defining
features such as
location it also supports Advanced
security features such as Microsoft
identity manager a centralized platform
for managing user identities and
credentials and conditional access which
allows administrators to set network
access limitations based on if then
rules finally you have Azure ad premium
P2 Edition
which is the highest tier of azure ad it
includes all the features of the premium
P1 Edition plus even more
extras one of these is privileged
identity management which differentiates
the access given to a user based on
status another risk is investigation
management which helps with triage are
assessing severity level and assigning
priority to known and newly identified
risks
one more is azure ad identity protection
for detecting and responding to
identity-based
attacks very briefly this can be
expressed in two ways it ensures that
the digital identity which is assigned
to a user is updated dynamically in all
places when A Change Is Made and it
provides hardened security against the
theft of this identity this addition is
designed for large Enterprises that
require ADV aned identity and access
management
capabilities you should now have a
stronger grasp of the different
additions of azure ad and their features
to summarize the free edition provides
basic user management and authentication
services for cloud applications The
Office 365 Edition adds features such as
group-based access management and
self-service password reset Azure ad
premium P1 Edition includes Advanced
security features such as Dynamic groups
conditional access and Microsoft
identity management and finally Azure ad
premium P2 Edition includes all the
features of the premium P1 Edition plus
additional features for managing
identities across multiple directories
and detecting and responding to
identity-based attacks Sam doesn't need
to worry if she doesn't feel fully
confident making a choice just yet soon
you'll explore some business scenarios
and discover how to align specific
business needs with the version that
best meets them when it comes to
cloud-based Services people in
businesses are often spoiled for choice
on top of selecting a suitable provider
they often must also navigate several
distinct packages that offer different
features and pricing you won't have all
the answers when you reach the end of
this video but you will be able to make
more informed decisions when it comes to
Azure active
directory today you'll learn about key
considerations for choosing the right
Azure active directory addition for your
organization you previously found out
that each addition is tailored to meet
different needs making the best choice
can have a significant impact on your
organization's productivity and overall
success you'll revisit the major
differences between each Edition before
exploring several business son arios and
determining the most suitable Azure ad
package in each case let's start with a
recap of the different Azure ad editions
that are available Azure ad free is the
basic Edition that is available to all
Azure customers it includes the core
Azure ad features such as user
management application access management
and device management it also includes
basic security and Reporting
features note that many features are
limited in this addition for example
multiactor authentication can only be
performed using the phone app The Office
365 Edition is designed for
organizations that use Office 365
applications it includes all the
features of the free edition plus
Advanced security and Reporting features
such as multiactor
authentication conditional access and
risk-based identity
protection recall that the premium tier
of azure ad editions is actually split
into two versions the premium P1 Edition
is designed for organizations that
require more advanced identity and
access management capabilities it
includes all the features of the Office
365 Edition plus Advanced identity
protection features such as privileged
identity management identity governance
and identity protection
you also have the premium P2 Edition
which is aimed at organizations that
require the most advanced identity and
access management
capabilities it includes all the
features of the premium P1 Edition plus
Advanced identity protection features
such as identity and access management
for external users identity protection
for non aure applications and Azure ad
identity protection remember that each
addition is also subject to different
pricing the free edition as the name
suggests is free of charge the Office
365 Edition is included in the Office
365 subscription plan which starts at $6
per user per month the premium P1
Edition costs $6 per user per month
while the premium P2 Edition is
available for $9 per user per month now
that you've outlined the features of
each Azure ad Edition let's examine the
needs of a few different businesses and
determine which addition best suits each
one first imagine a small startup with
less than 50
employees a central administrator
manages user accounts and they have
access to a few
applications the company has minimal
experience using cloud-based services so
they are not sure if Azure ad is a good
fit
which version would be the best choice
here they would probably want the free
edition as it provides all the basic
features they need at no cost the
business does not have a huge staff or
large number of devices so the
limitations would not present a problem
this also gives the company a risk-free
way to familiarize themselves with the
service and decide if Azure ad is a
suitable long-term solution that the
company can grow with next you have a
medium-sized company with 500 employees
most of them use Office 365 applications
such as Microsoft Word and Excel and the
company wants to ensure Advanced
security for their users when sharing
documents
online which addition should this
company
choose the name is probably a giveaway
but the Office 365 Edition would be the
best choice this version of azure ad
provides Advanced security features that
extend to office apps and is included in
the Office 365 subscription plan finally
there is a large Enterprise with
thousands of
employees because of the complexity of
their access requirements they want to
ensure that they have the most advanced
identity and access management
capabilities including privileged
identity management and identity
governance what's the most suitable
option in this case for the highest
degree of control the company should go
with either the premium P1 or P2 Edition
the version to pick would depend on the
company's specific needs in budget in
either case they would find it easier to
set Rule and role based permissions that
make it easier to handle many users
without the additional time commitment
as you've just observed there is no
single perfect version of azure ad and
choosing the right addition is crucial
for any organization that wants to
manage user identities and access to
Applications
effectively it's important to evaluate
your organization's needs and budget to
determine which addition is the best fit
have you ever felt frustration when
wanting to log into an application at
work but you forgot your username and
password there is also a heightened
awareness of cyber crime and you're
encouraged to change your passwords
regularly but by logging into various
apps and services every day you run the
risk of forgetting your credentials or
exposing them because you keep a record
of them in a Word document or on a piece
of paper at your desk here Azure
identity is a solution that manages this
process and saves time for businesses
previously you examine the process of
transitioning from active directory or
ad to Azure active directory or
aad you also explored aad additions with
some use cases when
transitioning now it is time to discuss
Azure identity specifically you'll learn
about the different available identities
and various ways to create an identity
let's Define
identity identity refers to the unique
digital representation of a person
organization or service it plays a
critical role in cloud computing in
authenticating and authorizing resource
access Azure has many types of
identities such as user identities
service identities and and device
identities let's begin with the user
identity user identities are associated
with a specific user account and are
typically used to authenticate access to
Azure resources for example Sam Scoops
has a website that allows customers to
order ice cream online to access the
website customers must authenticate
themselves using their user identity
essentially this means that a user must
present a form of identification linking
them to further correspondence various
types of identification include a
personal phone number a personal email
address an authentication app linked to
a phone and a social media account once
a reference to an individual is
established the user can then log into
their aad portal using this identifying
element and a password using this
approach has the Dual benefit of esta a
lishing a unique reference for the user
it is also a form of validation if the
user is accidentally locked out of their
account the second identity type is a
service identity applications and
services use service identities to
authenticate and authorize access to
Azure
resources refer to the example of Sam
Scoops the ice cream shop may use a
chatbot service to handle customer
inquiries
here the chatbot service uses its
identity to access Sam Scoops Azure
resources such as the customer orders
database alternatively Sam can Implement
an application that requires real-time
information such as weather updates so
Sam configures a bot with the
authorization to make requests from an
external Source a service identity might
also be an application that is
authorized to make requests on behalf of
of a user these are referred to as
service principles you'll encounter
specific examples of service principles
in action later on the last identity
type to focus on is device identity a
device is a piece of Hardware like a
mobile device laptop server or printer a
device identity gives administrators the
information to use when making access or
configuration decisions there are three
ways to set up the device identities in
a ad the first setup option is azure ad
registered
devices these are devices that are
registered to work on a system workers
often bring their own devices to
interact with the company's system and
these two should be registered an
example of this is using your mobile
phone for multiactor authentication or
MFA an alternative option is to set up
device identities through Azure ad
joined device this is a device that
requires organizational credentials for
Access typically this would be a
company-owned device such as a work
laptop that an employee will use during
their employment finally hybrid Azure ad
join devices are registered devices with
an on premises ad that are configured to
interact with the aad and gain the
associated benefits but how do you
manage these
identities managed identities is an aad
feature allowing the creat ation and
management of resources without needing
to maintain the secrets credentials
certificates and keys often used to
enable communication between Services
once Azure ad authentication is granted
to a resource it can be configured as a
managed identity so resources can access
the application without using
credentials note that the credentials
are not known to the developer managed
identities come in two forms forms with
aad system assigned and user assigned
with system assigned an identity is
automatically created with aad when the
resource is created the resource uses
its credentials to communicate directly
with the
aad on creation it is authorized to
interact with one service a good way to
think about this is to consider an
application created to interact with a
virtual machine performing a particular
function the system automatically links
the application with the virtual machine
which exists for as long as the virtual
machine exists if the virtual machine is
destroyed then the application is as
well the user assigned feature is a
standalone aszure resource that can be
authorized to interact with one or more
services or multiple Azure
resources as a result its resources are
not tied to one application so it must
be manually deleted if it is no longer
used in this video you learn that
identity management is crucial to cloud
computing Azure provides several options
for managing identities such as user
identities device identities and service
identities where authorized applications
make requests on behalf of a user known
as service principles additionally
managing an identity can be done by
either system assigned or user assigned
functions this will cause them to behave
differently by now you should know that
as your ad designates different types of
identities for system entities that
interact with resources but what happens
when someone outside of the organization
needs access to these resources as well
for example imagine that Sam Scoops has
decided to use a payroll automation
service this service needs certain data
to function such as records of the
shifts worked by
employees but Sam wants to feel
confident that other data remains
inaccessible fortunately as you'll soon
find out Azure ad offers a solution that
makes this possible in this video you'll
find out how to distinguish between
internal and external identities in
Azure
ad you'll then be introduced to B2B and
b2c two additional Concepts to help you
understand how a company interacts with
external
identities these terms are the shortened
forms of business to business and
businesses to customer respectively but
first let's revisit the idea of identity
previously you discovered that different
types of identities exist for different
tasks you explored three specific
identities which are user identity for
the authorization of users device
identity for the authorization of
devices and service principle for the
authorization of applications and
services when created from within an
organization these all represent
examples of internal identities however
identities can also be classified as
external entities which represent
entities from outside the organization
so let's find out more about these
external entities ities they can be
either customers such as individuals who
purchase your product or service or they
can be with
businesses business relationships can go
both ways as an external company might
use your services or your organization
may use theirs the terms used to
represent these external entities as you
were introduced to earlier are b2c and
B2B recall that entities refer to
everything that could relate to your
system including users devices
applications and services external
identities are representations of actors
that interact with your system from the
outside this can include collaborators
suppliers vendors or SAS applications
further this would include any customers
that use your forward-facing application
in Azure ad external identities consist
of the following capabilities
B2B collaboration B2B Direct Connect
Azure ad
b2c and Azure ad multi-tenant
organization now let's explore each of
these in more detail B2B collaboration
refers to working with external entities
by letting them use their preferred
identity to sign into your application
or other Enterprise applications this
includes SAS apps custom developed apps
and more B2B collaboration users are
represented in your directory typically
as guest users the guest user will be
prompted to create or use an existing
Microsoft login B2B Direct Connect is
for establishing a mutual two-way trust
with another Azure ad Organization for
seamless collaboration B2B Direct
Connect supports direct connection
between businesses this enables external
users to access your resources within
their home instances and the
organization to access theirs B2B Direct
Connect users aren't represented in your
directory but are visible from within
and can be monitored this connection
needs to be established with great care
as you provide external access to
resources and will not have the same
level of vetting as when dealing with
inside parties Azure ad b2c is a means
for businesses to to provide secure
authentication methods in establishing
the identity of customers accessing
applications and services of the
business the focus of b2c is less
collaboration focused instead the goal
is to get customers to consume a product
that uses Azure Based Services this
approach allows for the identity
provider to be any email or acceptable
social media account BTC allows the
creation of an identity on the site
separate from any existing social media
account however access gained this way
only enables interaction with a given
application or service created and
finally Azure ad multi-tenant
organization allows for collaboration
with multiple tenants in a single Azure
ad organization via cross tenant
synchronization this is a means of
bypassing the division of resources
within various Azure tencies by
providing a regulated method for
interacting with services and
resources recall that a single tency is
a self-contained division of an
organization's
resources multiple tency allows a
company to better distribute the
spending of resources and asure AD
multi-tenant organization facilitates
this division with the ability to share
some resources when required there are
several ways that you can invite a user
to join the organization you can use
direct messaging to create an invite
guest Link in the Azure portal and email
it directly to a guest alternatively you
can bulk invite guests using Powershell
this is a command line interface that
you can use to write scripts that can
perform batch operations like sending
messages to multiple emails at once
finally you can pre-approve several
self-service sign-ins and provide the
Link at a Central site like GitHub in
this video you were introduced to
external identities as they apply to B2B
and b2c
relationships you've discovered that
identity management in Azure can impact
the security and efficiency of an
organization's
operations Sam Scoops can ensure that
the resources and data are secure and
well managed by understanding identity
types the role of devices and the
management options for external entities
and service identities begin in the riew
section of the Azure portal from here
scroll to the bottom of the page and
you'll arrive at a section labeled quick
actions select the add user icon in this
section to open a form where you can add
the details of a new user at the top of
this form you'll find options for create
user and invite user Make sure to choose
create user in this case if it is not
already
selected moving down to the identity
section there are boxes for entering
personal information specifically a
username account name and the person's
first and last names note that the
username and the name fields are
compulsory you'll need to assign a
password to the account and you can
choose between letting Azure
autogenerate one for you or manually
entering your own let's keep the
autogenerate password option but make
sure to take the show password checkbox
so that this password is visible scroll
down the page to the groups and roles
section select the link that reads zero
groups selected a panel will pop up on
the right side of the screen this
contains a list of predefined groups
here you can TI the box for the user
administrator you also have the option
to select a role for the user if it's
required the last part of the form asks
you to fill in the user's job
information let's set user administrator
as the job title it Department in the
department field and Sam Scoops for the
company name and that's it you can
select create to confirm the new user
account to verify that this was done
correctly let's select users from the
sidebar of the Azure portal homepage and
find the new user in the list select it
to reveal the user's
details good work completing identity
services by reaching this point you
should have a good grasp of what Azure
active directory is and understand the
value it brings in helping an
organization manage access to their
resources before you move on to
exploring the features of azure ad let's
summarize the topics you've learned
about this week you began by
familiarizing yourself with the goals of
this course and setting your
expectations a key step you took was
setting up a free Microsoft Azure
account which gives you 30 days to
access all Azure services at no cost
including those that will come into play
during this course you were then
introduced to Azure active directory or
Azure ad a cloud-based identity and
access management service you found that
a major motivation for using it is that
in comparison to an on premises active
directory Azure ad automates many tasks
saving time while enabling safe
interaction with SAS you learned about
the process for migrating an
organization from an on premises ad to
Azure ad which includes assessing the
objects to be migrated and their
dependencies syncing the two directories
migrating users and groups and migrating
applications and services you also got
an overview of some major tools for
managing users groups and devices in
Azure ad
this includes Microsoft in tune for
configuring devices and setting
compliance policies ad connect for
synchronizing Azure ad with an on
premises active directory and Azure ad
Connect Health for monitoring the
synchronization status between Azure ad
and AD connect you then found out why it
is important to manage users and groups
and previewed how you can do so in azure
your ad you should know that user access
needs frequently changed because of the
organizational life cycle this relates
to the idea that a user will need
different permissions when they are on
boarding at a company during change or
expansion of their role and when they
leave the company fortunately there is
azure portal a web-based interface from
which you can perform administrative
tasks such as creating and managing
users and groups this makes it easier to
change a user's access as instead of
updating all permissions individually
you can simply modify their group
membership and the user will inherit all
permissions and restrictions of the new
group Next you became aware of the
different additions of azure ad that are
aimed at different business needs this
consists of the free edition that
provides basic management and
authentication functionalities The
Office 365 version that adds group
management and self-service password
reset the premium P1 Edition that
includes Advanced security features like
Dynamic groups and conditional access
and the top-of-the-line premium P2
Edition that allows for identity
management across directories and
detection of identity-based
attacks you then examine several
different business scenarios to
highlight how each addition aligns with
different needs and to help you
determine when it may be beneficial to
upgrade from one addition to a more
advanced one finally you learned about
the concept of identity as it applies to
Azure ad you found that this plays a
critical role in how Azure ad determines
access to resources for different
entities and can be split in several
ways for one identities can be users
devices or applications and services
further more you have internal
identities that refer to entities
created from within an organization and
external identities that relate to
entities outside of the organization you
should also be aware that identity can
be established with a centralized Source
such as azuread or
OCTA however you can also use
decentralized identity providers perhaps
you've used an email provider or a
social media account to gain access to
another account these would be examples
of decentralized identity
providers once identity is established
the scope of access can be determined
recall that scope relates to how much of
the system is available this is
significant when it comes to
interactions with customers and other
businesses who may need access to your
resources or
applications with this information in
mind you discovered how exactly you can
create an identity in aure ad which you
then practiced in an exercise by
finishing identity Services you now know
what Azure ad is the advantages it has
over an on premises active directory and
what to consider when choosing the most
suitable version for a given business or
organization you're now ready to learn
about how authentication Works in aure
ad nice
work you've recently bought bought a new
laptop you have completed the device
setup and now require Office 365 so you
download and install the package from
experience you dread signing into the
individual applications you intend to
use but you go ahead and successfully
enter your account details in your email
app and move on to the other
applications this time to your surprise
Outlook automatically signs you in as
well as for word excel and PowerPoint
what you used to be a long process is
now a seamless one that saves time in a
similar way Azure ad has a feature that
enables extensive access after signing
in once in this video you'll focus on
authentication rooted in the example of
Sam
Scoops Additionally the concept of
single signon or SSO will be discussed
as a convenient solution that is secure
and saves time this is due to a single
login process to gain access to multiple
applications and services so let's begin
with Azure active directory or aad and
how it can be used to secure access to
resources in an organization to make
this concept more tangible let's review
Sam's progress in securing safe access
to the resources of Sam's Scoops first
why might Sam need aad and specifically
authentication as Sam Scoops has grown
more employees have been acquired so the
new employees are now provisioned with
access to specific resources like the
point of sales system Inventory
management system and employee schedules
Sam acting as the it administrator wants
to ensure that only authorized employees
have access to resources that are needed
to complete their function she wants to
control who gains access and when this
is where aad and Authentication come in
it's a cloud-based identity and access
management service that allows
organizations like Sam Scoops to manage
access to their resources authentication
is verifying a user's identity before
granting appropriate access to a
resource it's important to be mindful
when limiting how a resource is accessed
that the limitations are not restrictive
to employees workflow this is always a
security consideration when designing
Safe Systems
consider a scenario where an employee
uses a device at a restaurant table to
load an order but must first sign in the
employee then goes to another device
that sends this order to the kitchen and
signs in again finally once the check is
created the employee must sign in for a
third time to verify retrieve and
process the customer's payment this
multiple sign on process slows down the
efficacy of the employee there is a
secure solution in as assure that
minimizes logging in multiple times
Azure ad has a helpful feature known as
single sign on or SSO that is beneficial
to Sam Scoops this aad feature allows
users to sign in once and access
multiple applications without having to
sign into each one individually this can
be especially useful for organizations
like Sam Scoops where employees require
access to multiple daily
resources so when employees use
applications to take orders manage
inventory or access company computers
they can be provisioned so that only one
sign on is needed to understand the
benefits of SSO consider the experience
of Sarah an employee at Sam's Scoops as
she begins her shift she logs in once to
aad and gains instant access to various
resources immediately Sarah can process
customer orders using the POS system
check in on the inventory management
system and access company computers
effortlessly with SSO Sarah no longer
needs to remember multiple sets of
credentials or waste time logging in
individually to each
application this streamlined access
improves Sarah's productivity and
enhances the overall efficiency at Sam
scoops in addition to simplifying the
process for employees to access
resources SSO can also improve security
when employees must sign into each
resource individually they may be more
likely to use and reuse weak passwords
because they must remember many
different ones with SSO employees only
need to remember one password
encouraging them to use stronger
passwords and reducing the risk of
password related security
breaches SS so can be configured so that
a single login gives a user access to
all Affiliated services or unlocks all
Affiliated devices depending on how the
system is set up Sam would need to
configure her applications to use aad as
the authentication provider to implement
SSO then users can sign into aad ones
and access all the applications
configure to use aad as the
authentication provider later you'll
discover how passwords can be managed
from the cloud regardless of where they
are stored on premises or on the cloud
having a centralized location is useful
because you can set policies that
determine the type of password and
additional conditions such as elements
like time-based restrictions furthermore
you will learn about conditions that can
be placed on passwords to limit the user
or Force the user to perform extra
verification steps these restrictions
can apply to the individual or a group
of individuals depending on the
assignment in this video you learned
that authentication in aad can be an
important tool for securing access to
resources in an organization by using
authentication and SSO you can ensure
that only authorized employees have
access to business resources through a
single login process so they can access
them easily and securely allowing time
for more productivity a business might
start with a simple active directory
which is an on premises setup storing a
record of the devices and users that are
present as the business grows with an
increase in staff and devices it is
equally important that the business's
security perimeter develops from simple
steps to a progressively more complex
solution at some point the business
might take the plunge and opt for a
cloud-based presence this does not mean
that the on premises directory needs to
be abandoned instead it can be
incorporated with the cloud-based one
and live in tandem this is known as a
hybrid directory which is a combination
of both cloud-based and on premises
active directories in this video you'll
explore hybrid identities which is an
important concept to understand as
organizations increasingly adopt
cloud-based Solutions while still
maintaining on premises systems remember
when Sam Scoops made the transition from
using an on premises active directory or
ad to the cloud-based Azure active
directory referred to as
aad a hybrid identity is a type of
identity and access management or IM am
that combines the on premises ad with
the cloud-based one what this means is
that users can authenticate against both
their on premises identity
infrastructure and have the option to do
so against the cloud-based ad a hybrid
system is favorable for an organization
wanting to keep its existing ad while
benefiting from a cloud-based one for
example an organization uses an on
premises directory like active directory
to manage their user accounts and
permissions but wants to additionally
incorporate some cloud-based services
like Microsoft 365 or Azure this gives
an organization extra stability for Serv
Services by maintaining an active and
up-to-date backup in case there is an
issue compromising the cloud-based ad
and vice versa so how does
authentication work with a hybrid
identity when a user attempts to access
a resource their request is sent to an
authentication Service that determines
whether to authenticate the user against
the on premises infrastructure or
aad this service is responsible for
routing Authentication request to the
appropriate identity provider the extent
of what can be accepted as an identity
provider is determined by the
administrator during configuration to
maintain a hybrid identity there are
several tools that organizations can use
including Azure ad connect and Azure ad
Connect Health as previously discussed
Azure ad connect is a tool that allows
organizations to synchronize on premise
identities with aad Azure ad Connect
Health provides monitoring and Reporting
capabilities for the synchronization
process and can help diagnose issues
with the synchronization another tool
that can be used in conjunction with ad
connect is azure ad pass through
authentication it allows users to sign
into both on premises and cloud-based
resources using a single password so how
does AD pass through authentic
authentication work a user attempts to
sign into an application or resource
that is protected by
aad the devices are specific to the
company but in relation to Sam Scoops it
could be a company phone or a tablet
capturing orders aad then forwards the
authentication request to the Azure ad
connect agent which is installed on the
on premises ad and responsible for
authenticating the user the azure ad
connect agent forwards the
authentication request to the on
premises active directory domain
controller or ad DC this is an on
premises server that's tasked with
managing user accounts next a token is
generated once the domain controller has
authenticated the user against its own
records it contains information about
the user's identity and authentication
requirements the encrypted token is then
sent back to the Azure ad connect agent
which forwards it to aad in an effort to
promote user credential security and
reduce the risk of credential theft as
your ad pass through authentication does
not store user passwords in the cloud
instead the on premises active directory
domain controller authenticates users
and verifies their
passwords as you're a application proxy
is another tool which can be
employed it offers organizations a
secure and convenient way to publish on
premises web applications to external
users users can access applications from
any location through the use of azure ad
application proxy these are on premises
services like payroll and storage using
the Azure ad signin format there are
also some draw backs to maintaining a
hybrid identity maintaining a hybrid
identity requires additional
infrastructure and tools and this
presents an increase in complexity and
cost additionally it offers more surface
space or potential points accessible to
hackers in the security setup for a
security breach that targets either the
on premises or cloud-based
system an organization's needs and goals
inform the decision to maintain a hybrid
identity while there are additional
costs and complexities this is balanced
with increased flexibility and the
ability to take advantage of cloud-based
services with the existing on premises
infrastructure in this video you
discovered some benefits of hybrid
identities that make it an appealing
solution for companies stuck between on
premises and cloud-based systems it is
useful having an on premises ad as a
backup to the cloud-based aad for any
unfortunate incidents causing issues or
data loss the advantages must be
balanced with an informed understanding
of the risks and proper configuration
settings in maximizing the
benefits as mobile phones evolve so do
their security features how many times
do you unlock your phone in one day now
think back to when entering your PIN was
the only option to unlock your phone
then this progressed to selecting and
drawing a pattern nowadays these
security features are still present but
are not the most secure if used alone
and are often used as backup measures
the fastest most convenient and unique
identity verifications are fingerprint
scanning and facial recognition today
this is used to unlock your phone or
approve mobile transactions and changes
previously you focused on how active
directory or ad can help Sam Scoops by
facilitating the access for device
registration and user authorization
through single signon or
SSO Azure ad allows organizations to
authenticate and authorize users to
access company resources and enforce
security policies to protect these
actors recall that actors relate to
people devices or Services wanting to
interact with the network authentic
indication establishes that a user is a
legitimate entity on a system by
determining an identity password
protection is time honored so
essentially it has been a historical way
of doing things since the beginning of
computers and has still done this way
today in this video you'll explore these
alternative methods to increase security
for not only digital assets
traditionally but more recently through
biometric data on phones this this
reduces the obstacles for legitimate
users gaining easy access once a device
is registered on the ad authorized users
can access it using their ad
credentials this eliminates the need for
users to remember multiple usernames and
passwords and ensures that only
authorized users can access the
device in addition to the ease of access
register devices onto the ad provides
greater security by only engaging with
authorized users you control access and
prevent negative fallouts from a breach
such as damage to a company's reputation
as discussed earlier active directory
Federation services or
adfs enables the communication between
AD and Azure active directory or
aad and other identity
providers users can access SAS and other
cloud-based benefits by using Microsoft
Azure aad offers several Advanced
authentication Technologies including
biometric features such as facial
fingerprint and Iris recognition one
useful service available to aad users is
Windows hello for business it's a
biometric authentication technology on
Windows devices Windows hello biometric
uses sensors to capture the user
biometric data which is stored on the
device for future verification use when
the user needs to authenticate the
biometric data is compared against the
stored data to verify the user's
identity biometric data has its pros and
cons first let's go over the benefits
using biometric data for authentication
can positively impact Sam Scoops by
offering an additional layer of
security passwords can be compromised if
they are weak or by exploiting an
employee through deception to retrieve
their password the devices used in the
day-to-day activities of Sam Scoops can
be used to gain access to the network
however using biometric data eliminates
this issue because access depends on a
physical aspect of the actual
user using biometric data is convenient
because you don't have to remember and
input your password
it could be as simple as touching a
keypad or scanning your iris handsfree
it adds a different layer of protection
remember that risk-based authentication
or RBA uses contextual information and
calculates a score determining whether a
user's activity is unusual or different
the presence of biometric access can Aid
in this process if the RBA identifies
that some user activity has deviated
from the the standard pattern it can
raise a flag requiring additional
authentication such as biometric signals
while a password may be lost a hacker
might have more obstacles if prompted to
provide some biometric aspect of a
person despite the many advantages there
are drawbacks to using biometric signals
the system could generate false
negatives this might be due to poor
signal Hardware recording or the user
changing their appearance
the hardware to record such signals can
be costly and involves configuring a
system this sign on approach may be
considered restrictive to workers who
may have a disability affecting
fingerprint Iris or facial
recognition finally using biometric
signals requires recording personal
information from a worker this might be
considered as invasive in this video you
realized that authentication is ident
identifying a person to determine if
they are a legitimate system user
knowing the appropriate password conveys
legitimacy this video outlined other
forms of authentication such as
biometric data this uses a physical
trait such as the structure of the face
Iris or fingerprint that is unique to a
legitimate user you then explore the
advantages of biometric data with some
of the drawbacks of implementing this
method however users benefit from the
ease of access without worrying about
compromising
security you may be familiar with banks
that have vaults often underground or
hidden where safety deposit box are
stored with client documents money or
other valuables these vaults are
fireproof as added protection and have
sophisticated systems in place
authorizing access to certain personnel
with clearance think of password vaults
in a similar way they are centralized
virtual locations that store sensitive
information for
organizations they not only offer
protection in the event of unexpected
damage but also convenience and peace of
mind in this video you'll learn about
what password vaults are and their role
in securing access to critical resources
in an organization you'll explore how
password vaults can be used to protect
sensitive password information and how
they can be leveraged successfully the
discussion uses the experience of Sam
from Sam Scoops to help you gain better
understanding specifically you'll focus
on who in the organization uses password
vaults the type of information that is
stored the areas that are protected how
this approach Compares with other
authentication methods and the pros and
cons of password
vaults so what are password vaults pass
password vaults are digital locations
that can store Secrets keys and
certificates secrets are sensitive
information such as passwords or API
Keys typically they consist of a
combination of letters and digits keys
are either public or private and are a
major element of
cryptography they are means of
encrypting data that is sent or
decrypting information that is received
this is important in keeping sensitive
of information private because if a key
is revealed it can be applied to
encrypted data which allows
non-authorized users access to
information they should not have
certificates are digital documents with
sensitive information that can be used
to verify an entity's
identity it is commonly used in
communication
settings so Secrets keys and
certificates are sensitive bits of
information and if they are compromised
it can cause a lot of damage to an
organization therefore you should Place
High restrictions on who can access the
password
Vault this means that generally access
is restricted to it administrators and
other Personnel of high standing who are
responsible for managing access to
critical resources Secrets keys and
certificates provide access to databases
other sensitive information and cloud
services in the context of Sam Scoops
Sam might assign access to employees who
are responsible for managing access to
the Shop's inventory and financial
systems here Secrets keys and
certificates are all means of accessing
important business resources such as the
Shop's Point of Sales system Inventory
management system and financial systems
by securely storing and managing these
in a central location password vaults
help to prevent unauthorized access to
these critical resources so how do
password vaults compare to other
authentication methods the use of vaults
is neither a better nor worse solution
than the authentication methods you've
learned about while other methods such
as biometric authentication Hardware
tokens and sms-based authentication can
be effective for securing access to
resources password vaults provides ease
of access in a simple and costeffective
way the advantage is that no other
Hardware or specialized software is
needed when using password vaults
password vaults are easy to implement
and they run at a low cost even though
password vaults have low maintenance
costs the level of security isn't
compromised because vaults are proven to
be very secure in preventing
unauthorized access and other issues
like data breaches it is however a
single single point of failure this
means that in the event of a breach such
as the master password being compromised
then the extent of vulnerability or
damage to the organization will be large
there's a solution with Azure ad called
Azure key Vault it's the Microsoft
cloud-based password Vault service Azure
key Vault can be integrated with Azure
ad to allow users to authenticate and
authorize access to secret stored in the
vault as a Microsoft service it can
incorporate password protection which is
an example of cloud-based security this
allows administrators to define a custom
list of banned passwords and prevent
users from using those passwords having
the ability to enforce strong passwords
is beneficial to an administration
because it reduces the possibility for
cyber
attacks in this video you learned that
password vaults are important for
securing access to critical resources in
organizations of all sizes such as Sam
Scoops by securely storing and managing
passwords in a central location password
vaults can help to prevent data breaches
and unauthorized access to
resources this is achieved while
providing a simple costeffective
solution for managing access to data
which can potentially be sensitive
additionally with the use of a A's
password protection the IT staff can
ensure that users of the system maintain
certain password standards when choosing
and using a password to access the
company's
system you are now familiar with the
concept of single signon or SSO which is
a feature within Azure active directory
one of the virtues of having an active
directory is that it can be used as an
identity provider this means that you
establish your identity once and then it
is used for further login requirements
SSO is conveniently secure and saves
Time by facilitating a single login
process for a user to gain access to
multiple applications and services you
may think that one set of user
credentials granting access to multiple
applications isn't very safe in fact the
strength of user passwords is often
improved
because SSO eliminates the temptation to
create easily remembered or reused
passwords this enhances the overall user
experience saves time and boosts
productivity it also lowers the risk of
security
breaches but how do you create a single
sign on in this video you'll navigate
the process of configuring SSO in Azure
active directory so the credentials you
use to access aad will be used to access
a company application without the need
for further
verification the first step is to
navigate to Enterprise
applications now select a new
application then in the search bar type
in Azure ad saml toolkit this is the
application that you need to configure
select this application followed by the
create button in the popup window samel
toolkit is created by Microsoft and
allows users to create an application
for demonstrating single sign on
ordinarily a user has created an
application that they want to
incorporate into their Network in this
instance I'll utilize this existing
application and configure it to my Azure
active directory to demonstrate
SSO once the application is created
select setup single sign
on next select the s to enter the
required configuration then select the
edit button to enter basic saml
configuration inside of which there are
three fields that need to be configured
if it is not defined in identifier ID
then add
https
colam
toolkit.
azurewebsites.net in the reply URL enter
https
enaml toolkit azurewebsites.net
slam for/ consume finally in the sign on
URL Place
https colon
forward saml toolkit. azurewebsites.net
now that those are configured continue
by selecting the save button at the top
once the configuration is complete close
the top window on the right and scroll
down to samel certificates select the
download button alongside certificate
raw to extract the certificate note that
this is a downloadable file that you
will need later in the configuration
process additionally scroll to the setup
Azure ad samle toolkit section to copy
three pieces of information login URL
Azure ad identifier and log out URL it
helps have a Microsoft Word document or
notepad open to store these
details use either of these applications
to copy and store this information for
later
use the next step is to provision a user
that the SSO is applicable to so
navigate to users and groups and Select
Plus add user
group note that if you struggle to find
the users and groups tab on the left
menu panel then select Enterprise
applications followed by selecting your
application after selecting add user
group search for the user you would like
to gain access to in this
demonstration I'm adding a user called
Conor along with his boss Kim now select
the select button it's time to configure
the application itself so navigate to
the login page here you can register by
entering your email address creating a
password and confirming the
password note that the password has been
configured to require one uppercase
letter one lowercase letter and a symbol
alternatively if you have already
created an account then enter your
previously saved details once you are
logged in you are presented with a
screen of instructions use the
information from your aad to configure
the
application next select saml configur
configuration from the menu bar once you
are redirected into the SLE
configuration page go ahead and select
create to enter your details you already
have the information for this next
section recall the raw samle certificate
and the three extracted pieces of
information that was stored earlier
insert this information with your
application configured to your Azure ad
you are provided with two further pieces
of information that need to be added to
your Azure ad configur ations these are
the SP initiated login URL and the Azure
ad identifier next to the SP initiated
login URL select details to access the
Azure ad
identifier ensure that you save this
information onto your Microsoft Word
document or notepad then head back to
your Azure ad configuration page so
return to the Azure ad overview and once
again select Enterprise and applications
now select the Azure ad SLE toolkit
inside the application itself select set
up single sign on followed by the edit
button in the basic SLE configuration
section this is where I'll update the
configurations add an additional entry
for identifier entity ID and place the
saved URL and the Azure ad
identifier now add the other URL
retrieved earlier from SP initiated
login URL to the reply URL and sign on
URL Fields now select save and then the
system is configured all that's left to
do is test the application there's a
prompt that asks if I would like to test
now I select yes in the window that
opens I then select the test sign-in
button I'm redirected to the login page
but notice without being prompted for
verification the connection identifier
has been added selecting login opens a
page that displays your information you
should Now understand the steps involved
in creating SSO with Azure ad you
discovered that if your application is
configured correctly then a successful
test means you are not issued with a
verification request when revisiting the
login
screen think about what goes into
securing a location to prevent people
from getting in when a city park is
closed at night it's usually enough to
put a padlock on the gate which can only
be opened by Park staff but for
something of higher consequence such as
a bank vault expect additional and more
sophisticated measures like a policy
that limits which employees can
enter this concept isn't limited to
physical locations and you'll find that
it applies to digital assets as
well by the end of this video you will
be familiar with the basics of
multiactor authentication or M
MFA in short MFA is the practice of
requiring more than one check before
access to a resource is granted today
you'll explore how MFA works and why it
is important in modern it security
you'll also discover the steps involved
for implementing MFA in Azure active
directory and learn about some of the
relevant features that are available so
what is the security benefit of MFA to
illustrate how it can provide Insurance
in case something goes wrong let's first
check in on Sam's Scoops in addition to
the seaside shop Sam has an online
presence where customers can order ice
cream for delivery or pickup now Sam is
concerned about the security of her
business and the customer's personal
information having seen the Fallout from
some high-profile data breaches she
knows it can damage a company's
reputation when data leaks the progress
of hacking and counter hacking measures
means that passwords are not enough to
secure her business anymore as you've
learned earlier there are several things
that can go wrong with passwords that
compromise security for one passwords
that are too simple can be guessed using
a Brute Force approach recall that this
is a trial and error approach to
matching passwords with emails or
usernames and it often finds success
with passwords that are simple or that
follow common
patterns another issue is the ReUse of
passwords if an email and password
combination used for several accounts
gets leaked those accounts may be
compromised in other words if a hacker
gets your social media password they may
gain access to your email as well one
more danger arises from fishing which
can lead people to unknowingly reveal
their passwords are the personal
information used to create a memory able
password this is where MFA comes in MFA
is a security technique that requires
users to provide two or more
authentication factors to verify their
identity these factors include something
you know such as a password or pin
something you have such as a phone or ID
card or something you are such as
fingerprint recognition or facial
recognition one example of MFA in action
is when a user tries to log into a
banking app with a fingerprint and is
prompted to supply a pin as well another
example is logging into an email account
with a password and then being asked to
verify the attempt through the Microsoft
authenticator app while MFA is a common
security practice let's focus on how Sam
might implement it in Azure
ad as an administrator Sam can enable
MFA for users choose MFA setting
enroll users and use MFA for
authentication aad provides a
userfriendly interface that makes it
easy to manage MFA and enforce security
policies across her business in the
Azure portal adding MFA is as simple as
ticking the appropriate boxes and
registering any devices that may be used
devices address the something you have
element of the MFA Trio when it comes to
creating a suitable m fa policy for your
organization there are a few important
points to consider first it is essential
to choose the right authentication
methods for your organization this
involves striking the correct balance
between security and
accessibility in this situation it is
important to consider what is being
protected for example a financial
institution would apply stringent
measures to protect customers accounts
One Step may be the requirement of a
complicated password with a timeout
feature that automatically ejects the
user after brief inactivity contrast
this with Sam's need to take orders from
a customer the point of sales device
needs to be secure as it could be used
as a gateway to Sam's Network however
the constant use often in busy
environments means that speed of access
takes priority over security this might
manifest as entering a pattern on the
screen or something you know to
authenticate the point is that it is
fast to do but potentially not as secure
as the other
methods another important consideration
is the users of the system these would
range from administrators who have
special privileges to the Hands-On
employees who interact with the system
in their everyday tasks staff will only
respect and value a system when they
understand why the need for the
inconvenience exists this will avoid
unforeseen issues arising like the staff
of an it terminal with a high turnover
leaving passwords written on sticky
notes an administrator needs to have it
expertise and an understanding of the
policies that are required furthermore
the daily use of such MFA practices
should be routinely
revised in this video you discovered
that MFA is a crucial security technique
that every business big or small should
consider implementing it provides an
additional layer of sec
to protect sensitive data and systems
from cyber attacks you found out how MFA
can be implemented in Azure
ad you should also be aware that when
implementing MFA it is essential to
consider what is being kept secure more
security can often mean reduced
usability so consider what is being
protected and what the situation is when
deciding whether to implement
MFA recently you discovered that
multiactor Factor authentication or MFA
is a means of improving security but
what determines when it happens and who
is subjected to it what if MFA appears
at the worst possible time like when an
employee needs to log into a cash
register during a
rush with Azure ad you'll find that
there are methods for controlling
exactly that in this video you'll expand
your MFA knowledge with two important
Concepts condition access and risk-based
access you'll find out how these
approaches determine the need for MFA
based on certain factors and how you can
Implement these policies in Azure ad MFA
was previously introduced as added
security for protecting your identity by
requiring two forms of
identification recall that MFA could be
found in one of three forms which are
something you know something you have
and something you are to protect their
data access to the Sam Scoops Network
might require a password as something
you know a registered device as
something you have and a fingerprint as
something you are these approaches to
security require additional devices or
applications to Monitor and maintain
them Azure ad offers an easy to use
platform that allows easy integration of
these checks so that Sam can focus on
getting back to business as budding
cyber Security Experts you should learn
how to implement them carefully note
that the MFA features of azure ad may be
different depending on which addition
you
use Azure ad free includes basic MFA
which can be configured with the
Microsoft authenticator app SMS or voice
call verification and email verification
Azure ad premium adds Advanced MFA
capabilities most notably access to
Identity
protection this provides conditional
access policies which are an approach
for limiting the degree of access to the
network based on preconfigured
requirements it also includes risk-based
MFA a method for enforcing conditional
access
policies let's explore these Advanced
features in more
detail conditional access policies are
essentially if then St statements in
other words if a user wants to access a
resource then they must complete an
action for example a payroll manager
wants to access the payroll application
and must perform multiactor
authentication to access it other common
access requests that might require MFA
include if a specific Cloud application
is accessed if a user is accessing a
specific network if a user is accessing
a specific client application
and if a user is registering a new
device thus conditional access grants
access only under certain conditions
however it can be applied to individual
users or to groups risk-based access is
more directly associated with the login
attempt if a login to the company
network is from within the company
location then it is considered a safer
attempt if the attempt comes from an
unusual ual location that employees
don't typically log in from this might
trigger an MFA request note that while
Azure ad free includes MFA it limits the
number of users and features available
Azure ad premium offers more advanced
MFA capabilities and is recommended for
organizations with more complex security
requirements now let's find out how you
can create and configure a conditional
access policy in Azure ad
and how to apply it to specific users or
groups in the left panel scroll down and
select properties at the bottom of this
page select the manage security defaults
link and make sure that the security
defaults are
disabled next select Security in the
left
panel select conditional access on the
left and finally select create new
policy at the top to open the page for
configuring a new conditional access
policy in this case let's apply the
policy to an individual user under users
select the line that reads zero users
and groups selected with the include tab
selected Mark select users and groups
and tick the box for users and groups
this opens a panel where you can choose
specific people or groups to add so
let's select select a user note that for
this tutorial this should be a
self-created user account for which you
know the password select the link under
Cloud apps or actions and make sure to
mark all Cloud apps so that the new
policy will apply universally next
select the link beneath Grant and take
the box beside require multiactor
authentication on the right you'll need
to give the policy a name so let's keep
it simple and call it
multifactor to make everything wonderful
make sure to also change the enable
policy option to on instead of report
only when you're ready select the create
button you'll return to the conditional
access page and a box appears in the
upper right to notify you that the
policy was created
successfully now it's time to test out
the new policy sign out of your
Microsoft oft account and then sign back
in using the email address associated
with the user that you selected earlier
enter the password and you should be
prompted to provide MFA for additional
verification in this case The Prompt
requires a number to be entered in the
Microsoft authenticator app of a
registered device once you complete this
step you should be able to enter the
account next let's find out what happens
when this user is removed removed from
the policy back in the admin account
select view all policies from the policy
snapshot block of the conditional access
page select your newly created policy
and Mark none in the users section save
the changes and sign out from the admin
account sign in once again as the same
user as before you'll need to enter a
password but notice that MFA is not
triggered this time in the this video
you added to your knowledge of MFA
practices with an understanding of what
risk-based and conditional access are
and how you can create and configure a
conditional access policy in Azure
ad imagine how you'd respond if you lost
a key to the safe that contains all your
valuables you might be relieved that the
safe itself remains uncompromised but
not knowing its whereabouts or whether
it will be used without your knowledge
can be a stressful experience in a
similar way losing a device that can
access your accounts doesn't cause
direct harm but it can increase the
likelihood of unwanted
outcomes in this video you'll find out
what happens when a device that is used
for MFA is lost or stolen specifically
you'll become aware of the security
risks that this causes protective
measures that an organization can
Implement and steps to take after a loss
to minimize the possibility of
unauthorized access so what are the the
risks of a lost or stolen device think
of it like the loss of a wallet when
this happens it means the loss of
control of your credit cards IDs and
other personal information if someone
else finds it they can use that
information for their own gain such as
using the cards or even committing
identity theft in the same way when a
device configured with MFA credentials
is lost there is a risk that it can be
used for malicious purposes this can
potentially compromise your
organization's security as it is a means
of accessing a company's Network this
may sound like a lot of bad news however
a loss device doesn't equate to a breach
as other fail safes exist an
organization can follow practices and
Implement features in Azure ad that act
as additional
safeguards these include strong
protection to ensure that unauthorized
individuals do not easily use the device
conditional access to ensure the device
will only work under the right
circumstances and Azure identity
protection which initializes aad with
the cloud-based application that
monitors and protects your device
through machine learning let's explore
each of these Concepts and their
benefits in more
detail strong protection relates to
requiring robust unique passwords and
monitoring user activity depending on
what access the device might Grant you
might establish some obstacles like a
password if this gives much access to
the network you can initialize
additional MFA Security checks like
biometric checks or a second device
before access is granted conditional
access can help track and limit user
access reducing the risk of stolen
credentials if an unauthorized user is
using the device
then there is a chance that it will
deviate from normal usage patterns or
violate some access conditions imagine
an employee makes a request with an
unregistered device for access to
resources not commonly used even though
this is a legitimate request the
unfamiliar context is enough to trigger
an MFA prompt finally Azure identity
protection is a Microsoft cloud-based
service that uses machine learning an
advanced analytics to identify a
device's user and raise a flag when the
use of the device deviates from what is
expected this is done by analyzing an
established user pattern and comparing
it to the current
usage if an anomaly is detected Azure
May respond by requiring additional
verification the metrics used to train
the model include features like login
location and frequency device type and
in the times when the system is
typically accessed in addition to
monitoring activity for suspicious
events it monitors repeated failed login
attempts attempted access from
unfamiliar locations and patterns
deviating from normal usage now let's
say your device has gone missing and
your organization didn't Implement any
of the previous protective measures
what's next fortunately you're not in
danger just yet there are still things
you can do to mitigate risk in the event
of a lost or stolen device Azure ad
features self-service password reset
which allows users to reset their
passwords manually this can be done
without the device needing to be present
it's like having a spare key to your
safe in case you lost the
original however once you regain access
to the safe it is best to change the
locks once you have regained a means of
accessing a system you can then disable
the devic's access to your system in
fact it is good practice to monitor how
devices are interacting with your system
note that every usage will come with a
timestamp and Microsoft recommends that
stale devices are removed a stale device
is one whose timestamp shows that it has
been inactive for an extended period
device activity can be monitored under
conditional access which can be
configured to trigger an MFA request for
devices that have not been used recently
in this video you discovered how MFA
procedures can help when your devices
lost or stolen you can mitigate loss or
stolen devices by establishing strong
identity procedures configuring your
devices with authentication steps and
monitoring activity this way the
organization's safety can be ensured
even when the devices protecting them
are lost if these measures are not taken
before a device is lost you can fall
back on self-service password reset
which enables an authorized user to
access their account without a
registered device however as with any
security situation it's better to apply
safeguards before an incident rather
than after have you considered how much
time is spent online working digitally
and remotely with so many tasks
happening across numerous applications
and services it can be troublesome
trying to remember several different
passwords so it's easier to use the same
password every time even though it
compromises your password security but
what if you have to reset your password
so much time is wasted between
contacting your administrator and
awaiting the password reset to be
actioned especially if it's after it
working
hours this not only tests your patience
but hinders your productivity as your
active directory has a solution called
self-service password reset or
sspr it gives users the ability to
change or reset their password with no
administrator or help desk
involvement if a user's account is
locked or they forget their password
they can follow prompts to unblock
themselves and get back to work this
ability reduces help desk calls and loss
of productivity when a user can't sign
into their device or an application
in this video you'll learn how sspr
works and how it applies to both an on
premises ad and Azure ad keep in mind
that a password changed on the cloud
will also be altered in an on premis
setting this is called password
writeback or simply write back this
feature further supports it
Administration by automatically syncing
passwords that are changed with an on
premises
setup there are various systems and
applications in which sspr can be
implemented so it's quite a versatile
solution for many
organizations specifically you'll unpack
the scope of sspr and Azure ad connect
Cloud sync which is a lightweight tool
that enables an easily configured
password write back from Azure active
directory or aad to the on Prem
active directory or ad let's start with
the scope of sspr which is Broad and can
vary depending on the organization's
specific
needs sspr is most commonly used in
Enterprise environments where many users
and multiple applications or systems
require authentication this makes sense
if the organization is small because
then it doesn't require the
configuration of a self-service password
reset set it is possible to configure
sspr to accommodate a range of devices
and applications such as desktops
laptops servers and mobile devices once
sspr is configured you can link it with
a range of validation checks including a
security question which is only known to
the user and is used as a prompt for
triggering
sspr email or SMS verification
which the user possesses via access to
an email or a mobile phone number this
is linked during the setup process and
biometric authentication which concerns
the actual user biometric authentication
requires the company to have a means of
checking the biometric match recall that
Biometrics uses a physical aspect of the
user like the iris facial recognition or
a fingerprint it's important to ensure
that the degree of authentication suits
the part of the network being accessed a
company dealing with sensitive data like
a bank ensures that the access steps
required for sspr are more
stringent this means there may be two
validations for access to sensitive
customer data or financial information
previously different aad additions were
unpacked your selection of an aad
Edition impacts the degree of sspr
functionality available while all
additions of azure ad support sspr the
number of sspr authentication methods
available may vary depending on the
addition so the free version of azure ad
only offers cloudon user password change
Microsoft 365 app Edition provides
password change and reset however this
is not synced with an active directory
the top tier editions Microsoft 365
business premium and Azure ad premium P1
or P2 achieve this by additionally
offering the hybrid password change or
reset with on premises right back many
companies wish to maintain an active
online directory such as aure active
directory and an on premises active
directory to despite the many advantages
that you explored previously there are
some configuration
challenges when creating an sspr for
your organization on the free Azure ad
it is impossible to sync the rest of an
ad password as mentioned earlier
password writeback is the practice of
syncing password changes made online
this is implemented by using two
Microsoft Services a connect and AD
connect Cloud sync so users are able to
maintain compatibility between aad and
on premises ad through ad connect ad
connect Cloud sync is a lightweight
variant of this tool that syncs aad and
AD
sspr ad connect Cloud sync has the
advantage of a lightweight easily
implemented and configured infr
structure it can be configured to write
back any sspr changes made on the cloud
with your on premises ad ad connect
however has extra available features
such as merging attributes from multiple
domains or support for device objects in
this video you learned what self-service
password reset or sspr is it is a
crucial feature in modern organizations
that improves user experience and
reduces the workload for it support sspr
can be implemented in various systems
and applications when configured with ad
connect Cloud sync facilitates password
changes back to the on premises
directory making it a versatile solution
organizations need to consider the
available sspr features and Licensing
restrictions When selecting an Azure ad
addition azure ad self-service password
reset or
sspr gives users the ability to change
or reset their password with no
administrator or help desk involvement
if a user's account is locked or they
forget their password they can follow
prompts to unblock themselves and get
back to work this user control reduces
help desk calls and loss of productivity
when a user can't sign into their device
or an application this video expands on
sspr you'll observe a demonstration of
how to configure sspr on the cloud to
allow a user to reset their password
this will be done with Office 365 to
carry out the steps you must be logged
in as an administrator and have an Azure
ad premium P1 license at a
minimum let's explore self-service
password reset in more
detail sspr works in the following
scenarios password change is when a user
updates the password to something new
password reset is when a user can't sign
in perhaps they forgot the password and
want to reset it account unlock is when
a user can't sign in because their
account is locked out there's a diverse
range of acceptable methods when
configuring
sspr these include mobile app
notification mobile app code email
mobile phone that's an SMS only service
office phone and security question what
is important to remember here is that
when a new user is registering and they
want to be able to perform sspr then the
authentication method registered during
setup is what is used for
sspr for example this could be a phone
number used for mobile
configuration however the security
question method is available as a means
of sspr but it is not a valid method for
authenticating oneself during
configuration you can choose how many
forms of authentication are required
when
registry administrators are
automatically sspr enabled but they must
provide two forms of validation the
reason is that an administrator would
have more authorization to make changes
to the network so a role with this level
of influence must be closely guarded now
it's time to learn how to configure sspr
with your Azure
ad go to Azure active directory from the
overview menu on the left scroll down
and select password reset the
self-service password reset enabled
function offers three options continue
by selecting all then select the save
button above it now select the
authentication methods tab configure how
many methods are required this is is
done before the password can be reset
one method is selected for this
demonstration further down are the
methods that are available to users take
a moment to evaluate the various
authentication methods that are
available to the administrator go ahead
and select the appropriate methods that
the user can use by ticking the
associated check boxes then select save
note that the number and type of methods
required for a reset are also configured
here next select registration from the
menu on the left a prompt displays to
specify whether users are required to
register when signing in here select yes
the information the user enters is
compared with the
sspr you can also specify the amount of
time in days before a person has to
reconfirm their authentication
information the default setting is 180
days the next step is to select the
notifications tab this is where the user
notification settings are the default
setting dictates that users will be
notified via email that their password
reset has been triggered the default
setting to notify admin users about any
password reset change is set to no
finally select the close button in the
top right corner of this section so
let's test that the sspr has been
properly configured to do this visit the
Office 365 login page and enter your
email address now select forgot my
password enter the characters in the
picture or the words in the audio to
complete the capture and select next on
the following screen enter the recovery
phone number that's listed and select
text note that the type of prompt may
vary and depends on which one is
specified during the initial configur
duration a one-time passcode or OTP is
sent enter the OTP in the field that's
provided and select
next if the code is correct the password
can be reset by creating a new one and
verifying it this step includes a
strength indicator underneath the first
field that indicates how secure a
password is it is recommended that any
password contains a minimum of eight
characters and a maximum of 2 56
characters Additionally the password
combination must be made up of lowercase
letters uppercase letters numbers and
symbols avoid referencing your surname
when creating passwords finally select
finish in this video you learned how to
configure Azure ad so that self-service
password reset is enabled you are also
introduced to acceptable validation
methods and how to configure this for
authentication later
finally You observe the steps to test
that sspr is correctly configured today
signing into online accounts requires
authentication ultimately you're proving
to the service that you are who you say
you are traditionally that's been done
with a username and a password but with
the evolution of cyber crime that's not
sufficient anymore usernames and weaker
passwords are easier to guess strong
longer passwords are difficult to
remember so the chances of forgetting
your password or being prompted to
update it are quite high it's important
to understand the requirements and the
options available to you when trying to
reset your password in this video you'll
discover various ways to reset a
password these methods include resetting
your password after sspr has been
created for you the output of attempting
to perform sspr and it is not configured
having an administrator reset your
password with anticipated error messages
and remediating the problem and issues
experienced with writeback additionally
you'll also cover password policies that
you're likely to encounter consider the
following scenario where you the user
must reset your password you have
attempted to reset your password you
first select login to the Azure portal
here multiactor authentication or MFA is
used so upon entering your phone number
you receive further information
depending on how the alternative
authorization steps have been set up you
are expected to either action entering a
one-time password or OTP from an SMS on
your mobile phone or entering the code
displayed in your Microsoft
authenticator app so what is Microsoft's
password policy during this process
Microsoft provides feedback on the
quality of your password strength a
password is only accepted if it conforms
to specific features recall that
deciphering or breaking a password is a
lot tougher when the password is made
more complex by using letters numbers
and symbols a password with only a few
lowercase characters is easy including
numbers and symbols strengthens a
password against brute for Force
attempts so a conformed password is more
secure other password policy features
that might be enforced include history
which prohibits passwords used in the
past age which forces a change after a
specified amount of time length which
requires a minimum number of characters
and complexity which involves a
combination of letters numbers and
symbols it is important to remember that
password reset has to be configured the
administrator is responsible for
enabling the system to perform sspr and
the user is responsible for providing
Alternative forms of authentication if a
password reset is required after
successfully using the MFA validation
method you can change your password and
enter the system however if you're
unsuccessful you may receive an error
stating that your password cannot be
reset it means means that password reset
has been disabled for the directory and
that you are not a global administrator
Global administrators are permanently
configured to have access to password
reset you could alternatively contact
your
administrator at this point a screen for
validation is prompted with felds for
your email or username and a capture
code capture is a random short phrase
that distinguishes you from computer bot
having confirmed that you're a
legitimate user by filling in the
capture your request is forwarded to an
administrator the administrator is
notified and resets the user's password
a new password is then assigned to the
user the password starts with a capital
letter has a variety of numbers and then
some lowercase and uppercase letters it
contains eight elements now when the
user attempts to log on a screen appears
confirming that a temporary password is
assigned there's a button labeled reset
password and a field with a temporary
password after initially using the
temporary password the user is presented
with an opportunity to reset the
password but what if you're using a
hybrid environment consisting of an on
premises active directory and a jur a
you may need to reset your password
because it isn't correctly synced in the
hybrid envir environment this is a known
writeback issue and can be caused by
connectivity issues where an error in
resetting a password is issued because
Azure ad connect sync stopped working
authorization issues Azure ad connect
sync may not have the correct
permissions to alter a password
configuration issues where Azure ad
connect sync was incorrectly configured
between the two environments
configuration issues may be due to
incorrect ports are not adhering to a
password policy in place in the on
premises active
directory in this case the password
updates cannot take effect in this video
you unpacked various ways to reset your
password these methods include resetting
your password after sspr has been
created for you the output of when you
attempt to perform sspr and if it's not
configured having an administrator reset
your password with the error messages
you likely
receive you are also introduced to
issues relating to write back and
covered frequent password policies nice
job finishing active directory
authentication during this week you were
introduced to several important security
Concepts in Azure ad namely the
different approaches to authentication
configuring multiactor authentication to
add extra sec security and setting up a
password policy that is both strong and
convenient before you continue to the
next topic let's revisit the key points
that were covered within each of these
Concepts you first became aware of the
ways in which a user can be
authenticated in Azure ad to gain entry
into a system one particularly useful
method you learned about was single sign
on or
SSO this feature saves time and effort
by allowing a US user to sign in once
and then access multiple applications
and devices rather than signing into
each one individually you found out how
SSO can be set up through the Azure
portal and you completed an exercise
that you had to do just that other
authentication methods you were
introduced to include a one-time
passcode sent to a user's mobile device
and open authentication time-based
onetime password or oath to P which
generates tokens with a code that is
valid for 30 to 60 seconds there is also
fast identity online or phto which
relies on Biometrics and device based
Solutions such as Windows hello for
business and Microsoft
authenticator next you explored the
concept of hybrid identities this is a
type of identity that spans across both
on premises and cloud-based directories
you found that this is ideal for
organizations wanting to use both types
and Azure ad features synchronization
tools that allows users to authenticate
against one ad and gain access to
resources associated with the other
these synchronization tools include
Azure ad connect Azure ad Connect Health
Azure ad pass through and Azure ad
application proxy however there are also
some downsides to hybrid identi that you
learned about these include the need for
additional infrastructure and tools
increased complexity and costs and more
potential points of entry for
hackers later you learned about password
vaults and how they secure access to an
organization's critical resources this
is done with Secrets which are pieces of
sensitive data such as passwords or API
keys keys which can encrypt or decrypt
data and certificates which are used to
verify an entity's identity you were
introduced to Azure key vault as one
cloud-based password Vault service that
can be integrated with Azure ad it can
be combined with security features like
password protection which enforces the
use of strong passwords by Banning those
which can be easily guessed on that note
you learned just how easy it can be for
hackers to access an account using a
brute Force attack this is when the
hacker uses a trial and error approach
that is often successful with weak
common or reused
passwords in the second week you learned
about multiactor authentication or MFA
which is the practice of requiring more
than one check before access to a
resource is granted you found that MFA
comes in three forms which are something
you know such as a password or pin some
something you have such as a phone or ID
card or something you are such as
fingerprint recognition or facial
recognition recall that MFA can be
triggered using conditional access or
risk based access
policies conditional access triggers an
MFA prompt if an access request doesn't
meet specific criteria while risk based
access activates MFA if a risky
interaction is detected as identified
ifed by Machine
learning you learned that when an MFA
configured device is lost or stolen it
can present a security risk however
there are also steps that can be taken
to minimize this risk this includes a
preemptive measure like strong
protection which is the practice of
enforcing strong passwords and
monitoring user activity organizations
can also employ conditional access and
Azure identity protection to help detect
unusual signin attempts access can also
be cancelled for lost or stolen devices
or for stale devices which are those
that have not been used to access the
system for an extended
period in the third week you became
familiar with self-service password
reset or
sspr this allows users to reset their
account password without involving the
administrators for large organizations
this reduces weight times and lost
productivity sspr can be configured to
require additional validation checks
such as answering a security question
verifying an email or SMS message or
providing biometric data like a
fingerprint you found that depending on
the addition of azure ad used different
sspr capabilities are available as your
ad premium P1 and P2 offer the greatest
convenience
by featuring password write back which
syncs on premises password resets to
Azure ad finally you applied this
knowledge to an exercise that tasked you
with implementing sspr for a user group
within Sam Scoops by completing active
directory authentication you have
expanded your knowledge of
authentication specifically you should
know how administrators can set policies
that determine which authentication
methods are used who is subject to them
and what events or conditions will
trigger them well
done employees today often work remotely
and have many ways to gain access to
their applications services and data
modern it departments within
organizations often use both on premises
and cloud-based solutions to provide
users with convenient safe access giving
them more control however as this
ecosystem expands more users and devices
request access to resources to stay safe
against the increased risk an
organization should take steps to
increase its security posture it
administrators are presented with the
challenge of maintaining control to
avoid data
breaches conditional access policies are
a more robust security defense line so
if a user wants access then an action
must first be taken
this video focuses on conditional access
policies in azour
ad you'll examine the different signals
or information that conditional access
considers when making policy
decisions the modern security perimeter
now extends Beyond an organization's
Network to include user and device
identity organizations can use identity
driven signals as part of their Access
Control decisions the information
obtained from these identity-driven
signals may be the IP location or a list
of users logged in conditional access
brings signals together to make
decisions and enforce organizational
policies Azure ad conditional access is
at the heart of the new identity-driven
control plane the control plane refers
to the part of the architecture
responsible for managing and controlling
operations conditional access policies
at their simplest are if then statements
if a user wants to access a resource
then they must complete an action for
example a payroll manager wants to
access the payroll application and is
required to do multiactor authentication
to access it so essentially
administrators are faced with two
primary goals they Empower users to be
productive wherever and whenever and
protect the organization's assets
creating a conditional access policy may
sound daunting and where do you
start conditional access templates make
this process a bit safer and easier
these templates offer a convenient
method to deploy new policies that align
with Microsoft's
recommendations they are designed to
provide maximum protection while
following commonly used policies across
different customer types and locations
by utilizing conditional access
templates you can apply preconfigured
policies that align with industry best
practices this saves you time and effort
in defining policies from scratch these
templates cover a wide range of
scenarios and ensure you can Implement
access controls tailored to your
organization's
needs there are four
conditional access policy templates
filtered by five different scenarios
these scenarios include secure
Foundation implements security measures
to protect organizational resources and
data zero trust verifies user and device
access regardless of location or Network
remote work provides secure access to
resources for users outside the
organization's Network protect administ
administrators enhances security for
administrators to prevent unauthorized
access and emerging threats adapts
access controls to mitigate security
risks and vulnerabilities you can locate
these templates in the Azure portal by
navigating from your Azure active
directory to security under conditional
access you can select new policy from
template preview here select show more
to explore all policy templates in each
scenario additionally conditional access
templates are updated regularly by
Microsoft to address emerging threats
and enhance security this ensures that
your access controls remain up to-date
and effective in safeguarding your
organization's assets by leveraging
conditional access policies and the
convenience of templates you can enhance
the security posture which is the
overall cyber security strength of your
organization it also reduces the risk of
unauthorized access and maintains
compliance with industry regulations
you'll explore the process of creating a
conditional access policy using Azure ad
a bit later in preparation let's
understand the signals that conditional
access can consider some of the common
signals that conditional access
considers include user or group
membership named Loc
information device information
application specific triggers realtime
signin risk detection Cloud apps are
user actions and user risk
evaluation first user or group
membership allows you to Target policies
to specific users groups directory roles
or even external guest users this
provides administrators with fine
grained control over access next named
location information enables you to
create policies based on IP address
ranges you can also block or allow
traffic from entire country or region IP
ranges device information can be used to
enforce policies based on specific
platforms are device States conditional
access policies can also be triggered
based on specific applications that
users attempt to access realtime signin
risk detection integrated with azuread
identity protection allows policies to
identify risky signin behavior and take
actions such as requiring password
changes or multiactor
authentication Cloud apps or user
actions can be targeted with conditional
access policies for example you can
enforce a policy when users register or
join devices to Azure ad user risk
evaluation is available with identity
protection and helps determine the
probability of a compromised Identity or
account in this video you learned that
conditional access policies give you the
power to control access to your
resources based on various signals it
provides an extra layer of security you
learned that there are conditional
access access policy templates that you
can use when you create a conditional
access policy a bit later then you
investigated some of the common signals
that conditional access
considers remember conditional access is
a feature available in paid Azure ad
additions the increase of employees
accessing company resources remotely has
introduced new challenges for protecting
data however conditional access in Azure
ad provides a way to handle these
demands in this video you'll examine
best practices for implementing
conditional access to secure resources
and cover various scenarios where it can
be applied the first best practice for
conditional access is implementing
multiactor authentication or MFA by
requiring users to provide additional
verification methods such as a code sent
to their mobile device biometric
Authentication or a security key you add
an extra layer of security to the login
process with Azure ad you can easily
configure MFA policies based on user
roles locations or device types this
ensures that only authorized individuals
can access your resources even if their
passwords are compromised another
important best practice is to utilize
risk based policies Azure ad can
continuously monitor user activities and
access the risk level associated with
each login attempt by leveraging signals
from Microsoft's intelligent security
graph you can Define policies that
automatically adapt to changing threat
Landscapes risk based policies enforce
additional security measures such as
requiring MFA or blocking access
altogether if a highrisk activity is
detected this way you can proactively
protect your resources from from
potential threats thirdly monitoring
access attempts is crucial best practice
for maintaining a secure
environment Azure ad provides
comprehensive logs and Reporting
capabilities that allow you to track
user sign-ins identify suspicious
activities and investigate security
incidents by regularly reviewing these
logs you can gain insights into patterns
of access detect irregularities and take
appropriate actions to mitigate
potential risks let's explore identity
protection to better identify threats
identity protection uses data that
Microsoft has acquired by analyzing
trillions of signals per day the signals
generated by and fed to Identity
protection can be further fed into tools
like conditional access to make access
decisions alternatively it can be fed
back to a security information and event
management tool to or SIM for further
investigation Azure ad identity
protection is an advanced feature that
helps you detect and respond to
potential security threats it uses
machine learning algorithms to analyze
user Behavior signin patterns and other
factors to identify suspicious
activities or compromised accounts when
a Potential Threat is detected Azure ad
automatically acts this may require
users to reset their passwords block
access or alert administrators for
further investigation this proactive
approach can help you stay ahead of
attackers and Safeguard your resources
identity protection detects risk
investigates it and categorizes it
according to a hierarchal Threat Level
let's unpack this in more
detail identity protection detects risks
of many types including Anonymous IP
address use atypical travel malware
linked IP address unfamiliar signin
properties leaked credentials and
password spray which is a type of
password guessing attack in other words
identity protection detects behaviors
that are associated with attackers like
attempting to log in with credentials
known to have been compromised in a leak
then the risk signals can trigger
remediation efforts such as requiring to
perform multiactor authentication reset
their password using self-service
password reset or to block access until
an administrator takes action once the
risks are detected administrators can
investigate it and take the necessary
manual action if needed there are three
key reports that administrators use for
investigations in identity protection
these include risky users risky sign-ins
and risk detections each report contains
data to help administrators determine
what action to take this includes each
user's risk level in the risky users
report the types of MFA prompted in the
risky sign-ins report and access attempt
locations in the risk detection report
identity protection has various levels
of risk it categorizes risk into three
tiers low medium and high note that
Microsoft doesn't provide specific
details about how risk is calculated
each level of risk brings higher
confidence that the user or signin is
compromised for example an instance of
unfamiliar signin properties for a user
that's potentially labeled as low might
not be as threatening as leaked
credentials for another user which is
categorized as high- risk furthermore
data from Identity protection can be
exported to other tools to archive or
further invest tigate and correlate the
Microsoft graph-based apis allow
organizations to collect this data for
further processing in a tools such as
their Sim now let's explore best
practices for implementing conditional
access in different
scenarios for remote workers it is
essential to secure access to your
resources from outside your
organization's Network by configuring
conditional access policies based on
location or device device compliance you
ensure that remote users can securely
access the necessary applications and
data in some cases you might want to
apply conditional access only to
specific applications by targeting these
applications with granular policies you
balance the security requirements
without causing unnecessary friction for
users accessing other resources for
example instead of requiring all users
to use multiactor authentication to
access access a company's invoicing
software you might configure a policy
that exempts employees in the payroll
department and improves their workflow
take a moment to consider the
conditional access flow the purpose of
this flow is to emphasize the importance
of considering various conditions and
controls when implementing a conditional
access policy let's examine some of the
highlighted conditions and
controls starting with conditions each
one considers what's already included as
well as those
excluded conditions that are used for
filtering include users and groups that
determine if the policy is assigned to
the user Cloud apps determine if the
policy is assigned to the Cloud app sign
in Risk note that this condition is not
covered in this flow diagram because it
requires Azure ad identity protection
then there are device platforms that are
optional condition checks to assess if
the policy includes the device platform
location is an optional condition that
examines if the policy includes the
location client apps are optional as
well and it assesses if the policy
includes the client app the device state
is also an optional condition that
checks if the policy includes the device
state next are the two controls that are
used for setting
actions Grant is an optional control
that's used to either block access or
Grant access in the conditional access
flow it is represented as does the
policy Grant access when access is
granted specific requirements must be
met by the device this can include the
app it's indicated by does the device or
with the app meet the requirements the
conditional flow highlights the need to
be aware of users and devices that are
excluded from the conditional access
policy poliy to ensure security they
should be assigned to separate policies
in this video you learned about the best
practices for implementing conditional
access to secure
resources as an IT administrator for Sam
Scoops you would need to ensure that the
cashiers at the shop are able to log
into the point of sales system but not
other parts of the network like payroll
records it would be a hassle to
individually configure the access of
each new employee who joins the company
but fortunately Azure ad offers a
solution that makes it much easier to
manage access for different employees
and departments in this video you'll
discover the importance of role-based
access control or rbac in Azure
ad you'll first become familiar with
what a role is and the different types
that are available you'll then learn
about how configurations can be assigned
to a role and how this impacts a user's
access arbac allows you to Grant
granular permissions to your
administrators while adhering to the
principle of least privilege in other
words you can Define and manage roles
with specific sets of permissions
granting access only to those who truly
need it by implementing arbac you can
ensure that users have the necessary
access to perform their roles while
minimizing the risk of unauthorized
access but before getting too far ahead
let's go over the concept of roles and
how they enable arbac to work in Azure
ad there are two types of role
definitions these are built-in roles and
custom roles built-in roles are
predefined roles with fixed sets of
permissions these roles cover a wide
range of permissions for managing as
your ad resources such as users groups
and applications on the other hand
custom roles give you the flexibility to
create role definitions that align with
your organization's unique
requirements they allow you to tailor
the permissions to the specific needs of
your administrators ensuring that they
have the appropriate level of access for
an example of how these role types might
come into play consider the billing
department of Sam Scoops a relevant
built-in role is a billing administrator
whose permissions include making
purchases managing subscriptions and
handling support tickets now perhaps
there is another employee who deals with
tickets and subscriptions but can't
purchase anything in this case you might
create a custom role called billing
support and Define the permissions
accordingly creating a custom role in
aure ad follows a two-step process first
you define the role by selecting the
desired permissions from a preset list
Azure ad provides a comprehensive list
to help you create definitions that
match your organization's
needs next you can assign the custom
role to users or groups assigning a role
to a user involves creating a role
assignment a role assignment links a
security principle to a role definition
at a specific scope a security principle
is any entity that can be authenticated
such as a user group or service
principle the scope determines the set
of azure ad resources that the role
member has access to this granular
approach to assigning roles ensures that
permissions are tailored to the needs of
each
individual Scopes can be
organization-wide or specific to
individual resources such as
applications this flexibility allows you
to Grant the same role to different
users with different access levels
ensuring that permissions are precisely
defined for each user when assigning a
role to a user or group consider the
scope at which the role
applies by assigning roles at different
Scopes you can effectively manage access
to various resources within your Azure
ad
environment this allows you to maintain
control over who has access to specific
resources while adhering to the
principle of least privilege next let's
find out how Azure ad handles access
attempts by a user with a given role
when a user makes an API call to Azure
ad via the Microsoft graph API as your
ad evaluates the roles membership
based on the token they
acquired the token contains information
about the users assigned roles Azure ad
retrieves all the role assignments that
apply to the user either directly or via
group membership Azure ad checks the
requested action if the user has a role
with the required action at the
requested scope access is granted
otherwise access is denied so a roll is
assignment in aure ID consists of three
essential components the security
principle the role definition which is
the collection of permissions and the
scope are the resources where the
permissions apply these components work
together to control access to azuread
resources effectively Azure ad offers
various options for assigning roles the
default method is directly assigning
roles to users
however when dealing with many users
using Ro assignable groups can provide
easier management Azure ad also offers a
feature called Azure ad privileged
identity management or Pim available
with Azure ad premium
P2 Pim enables just in time access
granting Tim limited access to roles for
users who require elevated privileges
for a specific period
this adds an additional layer of
security by reducing the time a user has
privileged access thus minimizing the
risk of
misuse in this video you were introduced
to role-based access control in Azure ad
which allows you to refine permissions
for administrators and limit user access
to needed resources
only you learned how buil-in and custom
roles differ and how these roles can be
created and assigned you were also made
aware of how security principles role
definitions and scope all factor into
determining a user's access now that you
have a basic understanding of role-based
access you're ready to find out how to
configure roles for your organization in
Azure
ad the ice cream company Sam Scoops has
expanded rapidly and what started as a
small small Seaside shop is now a
flourishing Enterprise with several
highly successful branches throughout
the country things are looking brighter
than ever but while lost in the glory of
its achievements the company has
overlooked one thing controlling which
employees can and can't access its
internal resources this may seem minor
but all it takes is one person going
somewhere it don't belong to wreak havoc
and cause massive damage to the
organization and sure enough one day the
worst happens meet Blake an ice cream
wizard at Sam Scoops when he's not
crafting an ambitious new frozen dessert
Masterpiece he can be found ringing up
customers at the register in fact the
point of sales software is the only
program in the company's Network that he
should have access to unfortunately
somebody missed the
memo one day while his manager is out
Blake decides to use the office computer
he finds a purchase ordering Page open
on the screen curious he enters his
login credentials and is surprised to
discover that they work moments later
Blake has a limitless world of
merchandise available at his fingertips
he suddenly remembers that his manager
mentioned running low on an ingredient
used in one of the Shop's ice cream
varieties that are made
inhouse even though it's not his duty
Blake takes it upon himself to place an
order believing that it will help the
shop he punches in some numbers and Taps
submit and the order is confirmed all is
well until later that week one day the
manager steps outside and encounters a
massive 18wheeler pulling up to the shop
she is dumbfounded by the mystery
shipment that leaves her with a tower of
boxes she opens one of the boxes to find
that it is filled with bags of
pistachios the other boxes all contain
the same it turns out that well-meaning
Blake ordered them for the company's
famous pistachio Wasabi ice cream but
little did he know that this flavor was
a seasonal special which was already
discontinued for the Year this hasn't
been a great situation but at least it
only affected one shop right well
Blake's Goodwill gesture actually had a
much bigger imp than initially thought
in the following days several other Sam
Scoops locations also reported receiving
unexpected shipments of unexpected
pistachios even the tiny truck that
serves Sam's ice cream at the beach
finds itself inundated with a Cascade of
nuts the head office is slammed with
frantic phone calls from shop managers
asking what to do and chaos Reigns
Supreme it seems that Blake's order
wound up going to every single branch of
Sam's Scoops so even with his good
intentions he got the company into quite
the predicament simply by using a
resource that he shouldn't have been
able to access in the first place could
this situation have been prevented the
answer is yes this crisis would have
ended before it started if Sam Scoops
had taken advantage of roles in Azure ad
let's rewind the story and discover the
difference they can make Blake enters
the shop office to find an unattended
computer on the purchase ordering page
he enters his login details and hits
sign in but this time his attempt is
denied thanks to role-based access
control which protects the organization
by limiting system access for employees
in his
position later a manager returns to the
office and uses the special permissions
tied to her role to access the purchase
ordering system where she proceeds to
buy
necessities and fortunately those
permissions only apply to her own shop
so there is no possibility of impacting
the other branches of Sam's Scoops so
the shop gets what it needs Blake avoids
hot water and everybody wins because of
his EUR ad RS a huge catastrophe was
prevented and network security at s
Scoops remains
uncompromised so what can roles do for
you you've recently been promoted to the
it manager role and are now tasked with
carrying out an audit of your
organization's security posture cloud
services are becoming more prevalent
within operations and as your active
directory is being used for identity
management your biggest concern for from
your audit relates to user access up
until now there's been a lack of knoow
to leverage the tools in place or
procure more to improve overall security
you've proposed and received the
go-ahead to implement Azure ad's
identity governance features to address
the concern and enhance your
organization's security posture identity
governance is a crucial aspect of
maintaining a secure and productive
environment for
organizations it involves striking the
right balance between identity security
and user productivity while ensuring
accountability and
compliance Azure ad offers a range of
robust identity protection and
governance capabilities such as
privileged identity management or Pim
identity protection and terms of use
statements you'll unpack these a bit
later but but for now let's check in on
Sam's
Scoops as with any company it is
expected that employees will come and go
and Sam Scoops is no different however
an audit reveals that some former
employees still have active accounts
with access to company resources this
unintended access presents
vulnerabilities in the security posture
and exposes the organization to cyber
crime you may think that only hackers
want to gain access for exploitation but
what if there is a disgruntled former
employee who wants to do harm to the
company solving this has just moved up
in the priority list for Sam Scoops in
this video you'll discover how Sam
Scoops is able to leverage Azure ads
identity governance features to enhance
security and productivity within their
organization first let's Define identity
governance in Azure ad a jured identity
governance is a set of features and
capabilities that help organizations
manage and secure their identities
access and
privileges these features include
identity life cycle management for
creating managing and deactivating user
accounts access life cycle management
for assigning and revoking access to
resources privileged access management
for managing access to sensitive
Resources by privileged users and Azure
identity protection for detecting and
responding to identity-based
threats Azure ad's identity governance
capabilities can be used to perform
three key tasks governing the identity
life cycle governing the access life
cycle and securing privileged access for
administration
let's explore this in more detail
beginning with the identity life cycle
recall that the identity life cycle is
the process of creating user accounts
managing user accounts such as assigning
access to resources and deactivating
user accounts when they leave the
company Azure ad automates many of these
tasks next the access life cycle
involves assigning and revoking access
to resources based on user roles and
permissions Azure ad automates many of
these tasks too such as assigning role
access to resources revoking access to
resources when users no longer need it
and monitoring access to resources for
potential security threats thirdly the
privileged access life cycle manages
access to sensitive resources such as
administrators were privileged
users aure ad helps organizations secure
privileged access by offering privileged
identity management which enables
organizations to manage privileged
access by creating and managing groups
of privileged users tracking privileged
access and auditing privileged access
Azure ad also offers just in time access
or jit for organiz ations granting users
temporary access to
resources these are users who won't
normally have access to begin with
you'll dig deeper into this concept and
its benefits later next Azure identity
protection is another feature of
identity governance in Azure ad it
encompasses a set of tools that
organizations use to detect and respond
to identity-based
threats these include
risk based authentication for
organizations to insist that users
provide additional verification if their
signin attempts appear to be risky
signin risk analysis assesses the risk
of signin attempts based on user
location the device used and the time of
day and Azure identity protection which
offers threat intelligence to help
identify and respond to known threats in
this video you learned that Azure ad's
identity governance assists
organizations such as Sam Scoops to
achieve a balance between identity
security and user
productivity as your ad automates many
of the tasks involved in the identity
life cycle access life cycle and
privileged access life cycle this
contributes to improving operational
efficiency
and mitigating security risks
additionally Azure identity protection
also helps to detect and respond to
identity-based threats by making use of
azure ad's identity governance
capabilities Sam Scoops can confidently
navigate the identity security
environment and digitally Empower its
employees while maintaining
productivity now you have a good
foundation of what identity governance
entails and using it gives you more
control and an improved security posture
for Sam
Scoops you previously learned that
identity governance helps organizations
strike a balance between security and
productivity specifically you discovered
how it can manage phases of the identity
access and privileged access life cycles
in an organization in this video you'll
explore identity governance capabilities
such as user provisioning streamlining
of access management and access reviews
with identity governance in a your ad
you are equipped to manage the following
tasks for both on premises and
cloud-based services and applications
you can govern the identity life cycle
to automate user life cycle events like
adding users moving users and removing
users to meet security and productivity
requirements then there's governing the
access life cycle to easily manage
changes to access rights by utilizing
self-service requests and monitoring
life cycle events lastly securing
privileged access for administration
allows you to govern access to
privileged resources and mitigate the
risk of excessive unnecessary or misused
rights an organization with multiple
Azure ad tenants includes both internal
and and external identities for example
let's reference educational
organizations where internal identities
refer to Educators and students within
the tenant external identities consist
of Staff members from other schools who
are granted access through Azure ad B2B
collaboration the effective
implementation of identity governance
requires you to manage the life cycle of
these identities and the relationships
with Azure resources individuals within
an educational organization often have
specific resource requirements for their
role and projects so managing access
becomes challenging without a defined
list of necessary resources for each
role however Azure ad solves this by
automatically provisioning users it
facilitates the creation maintenance and
removal of user identities across
applications promoting better
collaboration in the past traditional
provisioning methods such as uploading
Microsoft Excel CSV files or using
custom scripts to synchronized user data
have proven to be error-prone insecure
and difficult to manage but utilizing
the automated Azure ad user provisioning
service enhances efficiency and security
for large organizations such as
educational ones this service integrates
with cloud-based HR applications like
workday and success factors now let's
summarize the numerous benefits of the
automated Azure ad user provisioning
service first provisioning processes are
more accurate and it reduces costs
associated with hosting and maintaining
custom-developed provisioning Solutions
and scripts organizational security is
enhanced by instantly removing users
identities from software as a service or
SAS apps when they leave the
organization another benefit incl
includes provisioning large user groups
to easily link to specific SAS
applications or systems finally this
service establishes consistent policies
for user provisioning and application
access for more detailed information on
how automatic user provisioning Works
check out the additional resources found
at the end of this lesson for now let's
compare inbound and outbound user
provisioning inbound user visioning
involves the flow of user data from
applications such as human Capital
management or HCM to Azure ad or an on
premises active directory in this case
the integration is possible when the HCM
application supports the system for
cross domain identity management skim
for short protocol or provides
provisioning API connectors it
facilitates seamless synchronization and
management of user data between ident
identity providers and service providers
organizations across various sectors
including Sam Scoops can leverage aures
identity governance to effectively
manage user identities access rights and
resource relationships this ensures a
secure and productive environment for
employees and partners outbound user
provisioning also known as app
provisioning automatically creates user
identities and assigns roles in the
cloudbased SAS applications so taking
advantage of available pre-integrated
applications in the Azure ad SAS apps
gallery or applications that support
skim 2.0 allows you to seamlessly
provision user accounts and manage
access across different applications
next let's talk about self-service group
management this is used to streamline
the access life cycle this approach
empowers users to manage their own group
memberships enhancing security and
reducing the workload on it support
teams for example it is useful when
onboarding new employees where they can
easily request access to the necessary
resources without relying heavily on the
it support team users can create and
manage groups assign access to specific
applications and ensure that the right
individuals have the necessary access
privileges next next you have
entitlement management which helps
manage access needs as new users and
resources are continually added to the
organization entitlement management
enables users including external guests
to request access to predefined access
packages these access packages Encompass
groups and applications like SharePoint
sites allowing access across multiple
resources to be granted with ease by
automating access request work flows
access assignments reviews and
expiration you can effectively manage
the identity and access life cycle on a
larger scale another essential part of
identity governance is access reviews
this is a means of assessing access
rights regularly to ensure that users
and groups have the correct and most
suitable level of access this helps
maintain control over access permissions
minimize excessive access rights and
mitigate secur
risks finally let's discuss privileged
access management to maintain a secure
environment it's good to utilize Azure
ad privileged identity management or Pim
to carefully control and monitor
privileged access this includes
time-based and approval-based role
activation reducing the exposure time of
Privileges and increasing visibility
through comprehensive reports and alerts
with Pim you begin effectively managing
and monitoring access to sensitive
resources and mitigating the risk of
excessive or misused access rights in
this video you explored features of
identity governance in detail and how
they help manage user identities access
rights and the overall identity life
cycle within an organization this
ensures your environment is secure and
your applications and resources are
well-managed
as the it manager for your organization
you are happy with the implementation of
azure ad's identity governance to better
user access management however there's
still some work to do to better the
authentication process managing
credentials takes up a lot of your time
so while researching you discover that
the core purpose of managed identities
is to simplify and automate identity
management within Azure ad this is is
the solution you need and you are eager
to learn more about it in this video
you'll explore what managed identities
are in Azure ad and how it authenticates
while automatically managing credentials
on your behalf you'll also investigate
the two types of managed identities and
the supported Azure services available
to you a common challenge in cyber
security is the management of Secrets
credentials certificates and keys used
to secure communication between Services
managed identities eliminate the need
for someone to keep track of and to
manage these credentials while Secrets
can be securely stored in Azure key
Vault Services need a way to access the
Vault managed identities provide a
managed identity in Azure active
directory or Azure ad automatically and
applications use it when connecting to
resources that that support Azure ad
authentication applications can use
managed identities to obtain Azure ad
tokens without having to manage any
credentials here are some of the
benefits of using managed identities
firstly you now know there's no need to
manage credentials and they are not
accessible to you you can also use
managed identities for authentication to
access any resource that supports Azure
ad authentication including your own
applications thirdly there is no extra
cost when using managed identities
managed identities for Azure resources
is the new name for the service forly
known as managed service Identity or
MSI let's examine the types of managed
identities there are two types of
managed identities system assigned and
user assigned when you enable a system
assigned managed identity
some Azure resources such as virtual
machines allow you to enable a managed
identity directly on the resource then a
service principle of a special type is
created in a jured for the identity note
that the service principle is tied to
the life cycle of that Azure resource so
when the Azure resource is deleted Azure
automatically deletes the service
principle for you by Design only that
Azure resource can use this identity to
request tokens from Azure ad with system
assigned managed identities you can
authorize the managed identity to have
access to one or more services the name
of the system assigned service principle
is always the same as the name of the
Azure resource it is created for now
with user assigned managed identity type
you may also create a managed identity
as a standalone as your resource you can
create a user assigned managed identity
and assign it to one or more Azure
resources when you enable a user
assigned managed identity a service
principle is created in Azure ad for the
identity and it is managed separately
from the resources that use it user
assigned identities can be used by
multiple resources and have access to
one or more services here are some of
the services that support report managed
identities for Azure resources API
management application Gateway Azure app
configuration Azure app Services Azure
Arc enabled kubernetes and Azure Arc
enabled servers there are many more
Azure services that support managed
identities for Azure resources you can
access the full list in the additional
resources a bit later but which
operations can be performed when using
us managed
identities let's divide this using the
two types of managed identities
resources that support system assigned
managed identities allow you to enable
or disable managed identities at the
resource level use role-based access
control or arbac to Grant permissions
view the create read update and delete
operations also known as crud in the
azour activity logs and view activity in
the Azure ad sign-in logs if you choose
a user assigned managed identity instead
you can create read update and delete
the identities Grant permissions with
role-based Access Control use user
assigned managed identities on more than
one resource utilize the crud operations
that are available for review in Azure
activity logs and finally view signin
activity in the azure ad signin logs
operations on managed identities can be
performed using an Azure resource
manager template the Azure portal Azure
CLI Powershell and rest apis in this
video you learned that managed
identities for Azure resources provide a
seamless and secure way to authenticate
applications without the need to manage
credentials by leveraging System
assigned or user assigned managed
identity types you can simplify your
authentication process and improve the
security of your Azure resources you can
also authenticate to various Azure
services that support Azure ad
authentication and all of this comes at
no extra
cost imagine that while a room in your
home is being repainted you need to
leave for a few hours to attend to other
business to make things easier for the
painters going in and out of the house
you leave the door unlocked you are out
for longer than expected and return to
find the painters gone and the door
still unsecured even though nothing has
happened your home was left vulnerable
for a brief time you'll find that this
general idea applies to cyber security
as well but fortunately Azure ad offers
a solution that greatly reduces the
associated Risk by the end of this video
you'll have a basic familiarity with
just in time or jit access
you'll understand how this method for
limiting access to applications and
systems can add more security to your
access management approach just in time
access is a security practice that
minimizes the risk of attackers or
malicious insiders exploiting standing
privileges instead of providing
unlimited access to privileged accounts
just in time access grants access on an
as needed basis this way you
significantly reduce the chances of
unauthorized access to critical data and
resources withstanding access or ongoing
access that is not necessarily being
used you're essentially giving users an
open window to your organization's
sensitive information if a user's
password is compromised or shared with
others it can provide attackers with
undetected control over privileged
accounts this is where just in time
access steps in to protect your
organization so what are the benefits of
implementing just in time access by
applying the principle of least
privilege it sets limits based on three
major elements of privileged access
these elements are location actions and
timing Advanced privileged access
management or Pam Solutions provide
precise control over where users can
access privileged accounts and the
actions they can perform once access is
granted by making time a factor in when
access is granted just in time access
adds an essential Dimension to your
organization's security this approach
removes the risks associated with
standing Privileges and helps maintain
security without sacrificing operational
productivity ideally just in time access
is used with other Security Solutions to
ensure that robust security measures are
in place while maintaining operational
efficiency however managing this access
manually can be challenging for it teams
one way to make it easier would be to
leverage automated Solutions within a
privileged access management service
rather than creating accounts with just
in time access to manage privileges a
Pam solution offers features like
request access enabling users to request
access to privileged information for a
specified time additional features such
as checkout automatically rotate
credentials when the designated time
period ends in basic justtin time access
implementations Pam Solutions limit the
time frame a user has access to an
account and rotate the credentials once
the user checks out or the specified
time expires one area in which this
method can be of particular benefit is
for the protection of virtual machines
or
VMS let's find out why that is and how
just in time VM access works with Azure
ad thread actors actively hunt for
machines with open management ports
these ports are access points for
virtual machines that enable management
from remote locations all of your
virtual machines are potential targets
for an attack when a VM is successfully
compromised it's used as the entry point
to attack further resources within your
environment as with all cyber security
prevention techniques your goal should
be to reduce the attack surface in this
case that means having fewer open ports
especially management ports your
legitimate users also use these ports so
it's not practical to keep them closed
to solve this dilemma Microsoft Defender
for cloud offers just in time access
with this you can lock down the inbound
traffic to your VMS reducing exposure to
attacks while while providing easy
access to connect to vmms when needed
Defender for cloud insures deny all
inbound traffic rules exist for your
selected ports in the network security
group or NSG and Azure firewall rules
these restrict access to your Azure vm's
management ports and defend them from
Attack if other rules already exist for
the selected ports then those existing
rules take priority over the new deny
all inbound track traffic rules if there
are no existing rules on the selected
ports then the new rules take top
priority in the NSG and Azure firewall
when a user requests access to a VM
Defender for cloud checks that the user
has Azure ro-based Access Control
permissions for that VM if the request
is approved Defender for cloud
configures the nsgs and Azure firewall
to allow inbound traffic to the selected
ports from the relevant IP address or
range for the amount of time that was
specified when deciding how to
categorize supported VMS Defender for
cloud follows a path of logic that
includes determining things like is just
in time VM access already enabled and is
the VM protected by a firewall when
Defender for cloud finds a machine that
can benefit from just in time access it
adds that machine to the recommendations
unhealthy resources tab in this video
you discovered how just in time access
minimizes the risks associated with
standing privileges by granting access
to applications and systems on an
as-needed basis organizations can
significantly reduce the chances of
unauthorized access to critical data and
resources an employee asks you for
temporary assignment of the user
administrator role to gain permissions
that make it easier to manage a team you
fulfill this request and make a note to
unassign the role later however the note
is lost your plan is forgotten and the
permissions are left active for longer
than intended this oversight created a
vulnerability that went undetected for a
period of time but aure ad features a
solution that makes such occurrences far
less likely to happen privileged
identity management or Pim is a service
in Azure active directory that enables
you to manage control and monitor access
to important resources in your
organization this includes resources in
Azure ad Azure and other Microsoft
online services such as Microsoft 365 or
Microsoft in tune in this video you'll
become familiar with important pin
Concepts and features and you'll find
out how to configure pin in aure
ad so why might an organization want to
adopt Pim more people with access to
secure information or resources means
higher chances of a malicious actor
getting access or an unauthorized user
inadvertently impacting a sensitive
resource so it would be best for an
organization to minimize this number
however users still need to carry out
privileged operations in Azure ad Azure
Microsoft 365 or SZ apps organizations
want to give users just in time
privileged access to azuread resources
and can oversee what those users are
doing with their privileged access
privileged identity management meets
these needs by providing time-based
access and approval-based role
activation to mitigate the risk of
excessive unnecessary or misused access
permissions on resources that you care
about Pim can provide just in time
privileged access to Azure ad and Azure
resources assign time bound access to
resources using start and end dates
require approval to activate privileged
roles and enforce multiactor
authentication to activate any role next
let's find out how to set up and
configure
Pim note that you will need an Azure ad
premium P2 license to be able to use
this service first search search for PIM
in the search bar at the top of azure
portal in privileged identity management
you'll find tasks manage and activity
options in the left navigation menu for
Azure ad roles in Pim only users who are
the privileged role administrators or
Global administrators can manage
assignments for other administrators
Global administrators security
administrators Global readers and
security readers can also view
assignments to Azure ad roles in
privileged identity management for Azure
resource roles in Pim only subscription
administrators resource owners or
resource user access administrators can
manage assignments for other
administrators users who are privileged
role administrators security
administrators or security readers don't
by default have access to view
assignments to aure Resource role roles
in privileged identity management the
entities that you can manage in Pim
include Azure ad roles which are for
managing Azure ad and other Microsoft
365 online services Azure roles which
Grant access to management groups
subscriptions resource groups and
resources and pin for groups which let
you set up just in time access to
members of an Azure ad Security Group
pin for groups not only gives you an
alternative way to set up Pim for Azure
ad roles and Azure roles but also allows
you to set up Pim for other permissions
across Microsoft online services like in
tune Azure key vaults and Azure
information protection pin for groups
allows you to assign users to get just
in time access to azuread roles Azure
roles and pin for groups and groups to
get just in time access to Azure ad
roles and Azure roles for Azure ad roles
the group must be a newly created Cloud
group that's marked as assignable to a
role for Azure roles the group can be
any Azure ad Security Group it is not
recommended to assign or Nest a group to
a Pim for groups with Pim you assign
users the role with the least privileges
necessary to perform their tasks this
practice minimizes the number of global
administrators and instead uses specific
ad administrator roles for certain
scenarios recall that there are two
types of assignments eligible and active
if a user has been made eligible for a
role that means they can activate the
role when they need to perform
privileged tasks for each role
assignment you can also set a start time
and an end time this addition gives you
four possible types of
assignments permanent eligible permanent
active time bound eligible with
specified start and end dates for
assignment and time bound active with
specified start and end dates for
assignment in case the role expires you
can extend or renew these assignments in
this video you discovered that Azure ad
privileged identity management is a
powerful service that enables
organizations to securely manage and
control privileged access to their
resources reducing the risk of
unauthorized access and ensuring the
principle of least privilege is
followed great job on completing active
directory access protection and
governance
management during this time you became
familiar with several distinct but
equally valuable solutions for
strengthening Security in Azure
ad these Solutions are conditional
access roles and role-based access
control control identity governance and
privileged identity management before
you move forward let's review the key
Concepts you learned about that are
associated with each of them you first
dug into conditional access which is an
approach for using signals to determine
the degree of authentication that a user
needs to access a resource or service
common signals include user or group
memberships the location from which a
request is made the device used and the
presence of risky Behavior such as
uncharacteristic login times you found
that conditional access is implemented
through the use of policies which are
essentially if then statements if a user
wants to access a resource then they
must complete an action for example a
policy might state that in order to open
payroll software a payroll manager needs
to go through multiactor
Authentication policies can be
configured manually but Azure ad also
offers preconfigured templates that are
aligned with common security scenarios
these can be tailored as needed and
quickly implemented saving time and
effort you were guided through the steps
for creating a conditional access policy
through the Azure portal this included
specifying the users and groups it
applies to defining the conditions and
signals and configuring the access
controls you were then made aware of the
best practices for conditional access
namely using multiactor authentication
for added security using policies that
assess risk level and monitoring access
attempts you then applied all of this
knowledge to complete an exercise that
addressed a security concern at Sam's
Scoops this called for the creation of a
conditional access policy to deny access
to users who try to gain entry to the
system from certain locations next you
became acquainted with roles and
role-based access control or arbac
arback is an approach for providing the
least privilege needed for a user to do
their work this helps minimize the risk
of unauthorized access this concept
revolves around roles which are
essentially sets of permissions that can
be assigned to users and groups Azure ad
features a collection of built-in roles
that cover a wide range of permissions
and can be readily assigned if these do
not meet an organization's needs another
option is defining custom roles you
found that a role assignment has three
components the role definition a
security principle which is the identity
receiving the permissions and the scope
or the area in which the permissions
apply you were then guided on how to
assign and configure roles in Azure ad
as well as how to create custom roles
you also became familiar with some
common built-in roles and whether they
are specific to Azure ad another
Microsoft service or if they have a
cross-service purpose you then moved on
to Identity governance in Azure ad this
is used to govern the identity life
cycle the access life cycle and secure
privileged access for administration
let's recap what each of these are the
identity life cycle relates to to
creating an account for a new user
managing access to resources as their
needs change and deactivating the
account when the user exits the
organization the access life cycle
involves assigning and revoking access
to resources based on user roles and
permissions this is tied to the changes
during a user's organizational life the
privileged access life cycle refers to
accounts with special permissions like
users with administrative rights these
accounts need to be secured carefully as
unauthorized access to them could cause
great harm identity governance enables
you to manage access associated with
these life cycles monitor for potential
threats and automate certain tasks such
as revoking permissions that are no
longer needed you also explored the idea
of zero trust this is a security
strategy based on three principles
always verify provide least privilege
and assume breach this guides
organizations to secure every element in
a system namely identity endpoints data
applications infrastructure and networks
you then went into the specifics of
Designing and implementing identity
governance for an organization and
learned some best practices these
include treating identity as a primary
security perimeter centralized izing
identity management and making use of
azure ad Security Solutions like
conditional access and multiactor
authentication finally you became
familiar with privileged identity
management or Pim another service in
aure ad for managing controlling and
monitoring access to important resources
in your organization before diving in
you learned about the concept of just in
time access this is a security practice
that hinges on giving a user permissions
on an as-needed basis rather than having
those permissions available at all times
Pim allows you to implement just in time
access time bound access privileged role
approval and enforce multiactor
authentication for approval you are LED
through the process for securing
privileged access in Pim by configuring
many of these features this week you
learned a lot about how to to implement
Advanced features in Azure ad that not
only greatly enhance the security for
organizations but also significantly
reduce the manual work that would
normally be required well
done you've made significant progress it
took great effort on your part to
complete the videos readings quizzes and
exercises you have a better
understanding of the topics covered thus
far these include features of aure AD
across different additions Azure ad's
authentication methods like passwords
registered devices or Biometrics
authentication approaches in Azure ad
such as single sign on multiactor
authentication and self-surface password
reset minimizing risk with conditional
access granular control with role-based
access and management of identity and
access life cycles with identity
governance that means you're preparing
well to apply your knowledge in the
final course assessment remember that
the graded quiz consists of 30 questions
relating to topics covered throughout
the course but before attempting this
let's recap what you've learned up until
now in the first week you were
introduced to Azure ad's identity
Services specifically you explored as
your ad an identity and access
management service that enables access
to resources such as SAS applications
you learned about migrating from an on
premises active directory to Azure ad
and the considerations to be mindful of
when implementing it within an
organization some considerations
included restricting users and devices
or importing them asure active directory
and additions focused on subscription
packages and how to choose the
appropriate addition for your
organization's needs you then discovered
the Azure ad identity types such as user
identities device identities and service
principles the final identity type
available is external identities through
Azure ad B2B or b2c models you unpack
the various roles and privileges that
are involved in identity scope before
creating an Azure ad identity in the
following week your focus shifted to
understanding the different
authentication methods and features
available in Azure active directory to
help improve and secure in events you
were introduced to hybrid identities
this is a means for organizations to
keep their existing active directories
to perform tasks like managing user
accounts and permissions while
incorporating cloud-based services
within Azure active directory this
provides stability for services by
maintaining an active and up-to-date
backup solution you then expanded on
authentication methods with hybrid
identities you explored the following
following three different authentication
approaches Azure ad password hash
synchronization Azure ad pass through
authentication and active directory
Federation Services you investigated
realworld scenarios that use various
authentication methods such as a
one-time passcode open authentication
time-based one-time password or oath top
fast identity online or Pho which relies
on biometric authentication are
device-based
solutions furthermore you now know that
password vaults such as Azure key Vault
store sensitive password information you
also examined single signon or SSO and
exercised how to set up this using the
free Azure portal next you learned about
multiactor authentication or MFA
features and scenarios and how to
implement it for users groups and with
conditional access
then you covered tracking triggers these
are factors that trigger MFA it can be
tracked by registering new devices
self-service password reset or sspr and
with requests by an application you
learned about password protection and
resetting which focused on self-service
password reset and its scope you are
able to distinguish between configuring
cloud and on premises password settings
and examined the steps of how to
implement SS PR before putting it into
practice the final week was all about
how to configure access to minimize risk
without impacting productivity you began
with conditional access policies which
are essentially if then statements in
aure ad allowing you to secure access to
resources you engaged in a stepbystep
walkthrough of how to create conditional
access policy you were guided with the
best practices to efficiently Implement
conditional access ACC in scenarios such
as for specific applications and remote
workers this included implementing
multiactor authentication using risk
based policies and monitoring access
attempts then you learned about roles
and role-based access what roles are and
configuring roles and role-based access
control in Azure ad to also manage
access to Cloud resources roles are
divided into standard or built-in roles
and Custom roles and you witness roles
in action through realworld scenarios
Azure ad has different functionalities
linked to specific licenses purchased
you were given a greater grasp on which
licenses can enable which roles and the
overall impact this has next you moved
on to Identity governance which
maintains secure and productive
environments for organizations Azure
ad's identity governance secures
identities access and privileges with
features such as identity life cycle
management access life cycle management
privileged access management and asure
identity protection here you also
explored service principles that
authenticate entities on a system
managing identities at a deeper level
and best practices for identity
governance to manage identities
effectively finally you concluded with
privileged identity management or Pim
and protection this introduced you to
just in time access you learned about
configuring privileged identity
management and protection policies
before investigating some best practices
for securing privileged access with aure
ad this highlighted implementing least
privilege using time bound access and
monitoring for suspicious activity Azure
ad Pim secures access to resources such
as Azure resources on premises resources
and SAS applications
and that wraps up this revieww of what
you learned in cyber security identity
and access Solutions using Azure ad with
a solid understanding of how to leverage
Azure ad's identity Services the
authentication methods available to you
and managing access protection and
governance you're ready to assess
Yourself by taking on the final course
assessment good
luck congratulations on reaching the end
of the cyber security identity and
access Solutions using Azure ad
course when you first started you
probably had limited knowledge of what
an organization needs to do to provide
users with access to their resources in
a way that maintains security without
disrupting workflows but now you should
be aware of the tools and methods that
can keep organizations both safe and
productive this includes a particular
focus on the solutions offered by Azure
active directory which is Microsoft's
cloud based identity and access
management service by getting to this
point you should have a solid highlevel
understanding of how Azure ad is used
and what it is capable of specifically
you should now know about the key
features of azure ad and which ones are
available across different additions the
types of identities available in Azure
ad and how this forms the basis for
access management approaches and tools
for authenticating users who request
resource access and solutions for
determining the degree of access to
Grant a user based on factors such as
roles and risk level completing this
course contributes towards gaining the
cyber security analyst professional
certificate from corsera this
certificate not only helps you to
enhance your skills but also gain a
qualification that can lay the
groundwork for a career as a cyber
security analyst this program is also
designed to help you prepare for the
exam sc900 Microsoft security compliance
and identity fundamentals this globally
recognized certification is industry
endorsed evidence of your technical
skills and knowledge the sc900 exam
measures your ability to describe the
following concepts of security
compliance and identity capabilities of
Microsoft as your active directory which
is part of Microsoft entra capabilities
of Microsoft Security Solutions and
capabilities of Microsoft compliance
solutions to complete the exam you
should be familiar with Microsoft Azure
and Microsoft 365 and understand how
Microsoft security compliance and
identity strategies provide an endtoend
solution across these platforms visit
the Microsoft certifications page at
www.learn.cashtracking.com
compliance and identity fundamental
certification and exam now that you have
established a foundation for making more
effective use of azure ad to protect an
organization's data and resources what's
next there's a lot left to learn about
keeping online resources safe so a good
move would be to dig deeper into
cloud-based security you can do so by
registering for the next course in the
program doing so will enhance your cyber
security analyst portfolio and help you
gain the appropriate skills that you
need to demonstrate your abilities in
the workplace completing all the courses
in the Microsoft cyber security analyst
program will signal to potential
employers that you are motivated capable
and not afraid to learn new things it's
taken a lot of perseverance to get this
far so you should be proud of your
progress well done and it's been a
pleasure to embark on this journey of
Discovery with
you are you concerned about the rising
number of cyber attacks targeting
businesses and individuals alike you can
stay one step ahead of the game with
Microsoft Security Solutions the
cuttingedge suite of products and
services designed to keep the digital
world safe and secure let's explore the
world of Microsoft Security Solutions in
this course and discover how to defend
against threats protect your data and
Achieve Peace of Mind in today's digital
landscape you'll do this by learning
about cloud-based security Concepts
security information and event
management and Microsoft 365 Defender
capabilities this video will give you a
quick overview of what you will cover in
this Security Solutions course let's go
through the content to make sure you're
ready first you'll be introduced to
Azure basic security capabilities this
entails learning about the built-in
security measures of azure and also
about best practices for protecting
Azure resources and you'll have the
opportunity to learn about what measures
can be taken to protect against distrib
uted denial of service or dos attacks
firewall breaches and unauthorized
access there are three practical
exercises in this week which will give
you the opportunity to apply what you've
learned you will also learn about Key
Management processes and best practices
for encryption in Azure next you will
learn about Security Management in Azure
completing this part of the course will
give you a good grasp of the security
features available in Azure best
practices for protecting azure resources
as well as Azure security standards
policies and compliance to achieve this
understanding you'll learn about the
importance of cloud security the
security features of the Azure platform
the components of Microsoft Azure
identity and access management and how
to use them to secure applications the
security event management or seam and
security orchestration Automation and
response or sore capabilities of
Microsoft Sentinel will also be covered
and you'll also learn about the security
mechanisms used to protect data in Azure
next you will learn about Microsoft 365
Defender threat protection you'll
explore threat Protection Services like
Microsoft Azure Defender Azure Advanced
threat protection and Azure information
protection and how to implement them as
well as best practices for the
deployment and management of protection
services you will learn how to protect
an organizations assets from various
types of threats including malware
identity-based attacks and fishing and
key Concepts such as Microsoft Defender
Services endpoint and Cloud app
protection and identity defense will be
covered finally you will complete a
course Project based on a real life
scenario which consists of demonstrating
protection strategies by securely
configuring a virtual machine using
Azure firewall Azure Bastion Microsoft
Defender Microsoft Sentinel and risk
policies after this Hands-On learning
you will complete a final graded
assessment
but be assured that everything you need
to complete the assessment will be
covered during your learning with each
lesson made up of video content readings
and quizzes throughout this course you
will get the opportunity to apply your
newly gained skills in exercises and
self-reviews before going through an
Exemplar as a possible solution to the
cyber security challenge you're
presented with the great thing is you
don't need a background in it related
fields to take this course this course
is for anyone who has an affinity for
Tech technology and an interest in cyber
security the course will help you move
towards a career in cyber security and
it forms part of your preparation to
take the
sc900 exam on Microsoft security
compliance and identity fundamentals
when you complete all of the courses in
the Microsoft cyber security analyst
professional certificate you'll earn a
corsera certificate to share with your
Professional Network and help you become
job ready earning a Microsoft
certification is globally recognized
evid evidence of Real World skills it
shows your commitment to keeping Pace
with rapidly changing technology by
expanding your skill set in your
professional roles in summary this
course not only provides you with a
complete introduction to Microsoft
Security Solutions it also gives you
several opportunities to practically
apply the skills you learn now that
you've reached the end of this course
introduction it's time to continue your
cyber security journey in today's
digital landscape the frequency and
complexity of distributed denial of
service or dos attacks have been on the
rise these attacks can cause serious
damage to organizations disrupting their
operations and even causing Financial
losses to combat this threat Microsoft
Azure offers a comprehensive dos
Protection Service this video explores
this service and what it has to offer
it'll cover the fundamentals of how it
works the advantages it provides how to
begin implementing it and what different
types there are
you may know this already but let's
start with what exactly a Dos attack is
it's when a server hosting a website or
app is flooded with so much traffic that
it becomes overloaded and crashes this
happens when many computers called Bots
are deployed by cyber attackers to send
traffic to a server all at the same time
the traffic overload makes it impossible
for real users to access the website
causing frustration for users and loss
of business revenue and disruption of
business operations for the website
owner dos attacks can be targeted at any
website or app that is publicly
reachable through the internet so how
can businesses protect themselves from a
Dos attack one solution is to use Azure
dos protection which helps defend
against dos attacks by automatically
detecting and blocking malicious traffic
although Services running on Azure are
inherently protected by default
infrastructure level dos protection it
may not be sufficient for certain
applications by onboarding to the Azure
dos Protection Service applications get
dedicated monitoring to detect attacks
and application specific thresholds
providing a tighter defense against dos
attacks overall Azure dos protection is
an important tool for businesses that
rely on online services to protect
against dos attacks and ensure that
their services are always available to
their customers let's examine some of
the key benefits of azure dos protection
Azure dos protection helps protect
against dos attacks by constantly
monitoring the traffic patterns of your
applications additionally Azure dos
protection uses Intelligent Traffic
profiling to learn your application's
traffic patterns over time this means
that it can adapt to new types of
attacks and become more effective at
protecting your business over time if it
detects a Dos attack it will
automatically and instantly take action
to mitigate the attack ensuring that
your website or online services stay up
and running furthermore Azure dos
protection uses multiple layers of
protection to prevent and mitigate the
effects of Dos attacks these layers
include firewalls Azure dos protection
uses firewalls to Monitor and control
incoming and outgoing Network traffic
firewalls can block traffic that does
not meet specific criteria such as
traffic that is coming from a suspicious
Source or that has an unusually high
volume there's also Network segmentation
Azure dos protection uses Network
segmentation to devide divide the
network into smaller more secure sub
networks this helps to limit the impact
of a dods attack by containing it to a
smaller area then there's traffic
analysis Azure dos protection uses
traffic analysis to monitor Network
traffic and identify patterns that
indicate a Dos attack this analysis can
help to detect and mitigate attacks
before they cause significant damage and
last there's machine learning algorithms
Azure dos protection uses machine
learning algorithms Ms to detect and
block dos attacks these algorithms can
learn from past attacks and adapt to new
attack patterns making them more
effective at preventing future attacks
by using multiple layers of protection
Azure Doos protection can provide a more
comprehensive and effective defense
against dos attacks this helps to ensure
that Azure customers can continue to
provide reliable and secure services to
their users even in the face of cyber
threats Azure dos protection comes into
two types the first type is called dos
IP protection and it can protect any
public IP resource without needing a
separate protection plan resources
include things like websites virtual
machines and cloud services that can be
accessed over the internet to access an
online resource from the internet it
needs to have a public IP address
assigned to it not needing a separate
protection plan is helpful if you have
multiple services or applications that
you want to protect but don't want to to
set up a separate protection plan for
each one the second type is called dos
Network protection and it can protect
multiple subscriptions with just one
protection plan this is useful if you
have several services or applications
that you want to protect and you want to
simplify the management of your
protection plans Azure dos protection
has a fixed monthly charge that covers
up to 100 public IP addresses this means
that you can use Azure dos protection to
protect up to 100 online resources with
a single subscription if you need to
protect more than 100 resources
additional protection is available for
an additional charge if there is an
attack you can get help from the Azure
dos rapid response team who can
investigate and help you deal with the
attack if a customer experiences a
documented dos attack which means there
is proof of the attack They will receive
credit for data transfer and application
scale out service costs this is a way of
compensating the customer for any cost
incurred due to the attack in summary
Azure dos protection is a very helpful
tool that businesses and organizations
can use to protect themselves from
harmful dos attacks it has many features
that help keep your services safe such
as always monitoring your network
traffic adapting to changing patterns
and providing protection at multiple
levels it works well with other tools in
Azure so you don't need to worry about
setting it up yourself if an attack does
occur the dos rapid response team is
available to help with Azure dos
protection you can focus on your
business and not worry about the effects
of Dos attacks now that you know what
Azure dos protection is you might be
wondering how to configure it in this
video you will go through the steps to
create a Dos protection plan and enable
dos protection for a new virtual network
using the Azure portal you will also
learn how to view your protected
resources and monitor your dos
protection settings the first step is to
create a Dos protection plan this plan
defines a group of virtual networks that
are protected by dos Network protection
across subscriptions you only need one
plan for your organization and you can
link virtual networks from different
subscriptions to the same plan before
you move on to the rest of the video
please note that it's not necessary for
you to follow along in Azure during the
demonstration configuring dos protection
and linking the plan to a virtual
network will be costly let's get
started first open the Azure portal and
select create a resource in the upper
left corner now search for dos in the
search bar and once the Dos protection
plan appears in the search results
select it once selected click on create
to create a new dos protection plan now
enter or select the following values for
the subscription select your
subscription for the resource Group
select RG web server for the name enter
plan one and for the region enter East
us after entering the values select
review and create to review the details
and then click on create to create your
dos protection plan note that although
dos protection plan resources need to be
associated with a region users can
enable dos protection on Virtual
networks in different regions and across
multiple subscriptions under a single
Azure active directory tenant a tenant
is a dedicated and trusted instance of
azure ad it's automatically created when
your organization signs up for a
Microsoft cloud service subscription now
click create wait for the deployment
process to finish and that's it you've
successfully created a Dos protection
plan on the Azure portal once you have
created a Dos protection plan the next
step is to link it to a virtual Network
this will enable dos Network protection
for the virtual Network so now you are
going going to apply the earlier created
dos protection plan to a new virtual
Network the first step is to create a
new virtual Network to do this follow
these steps log into your Azure portal
and select create a resource in the
upper left corner let's search for
virtual Network and once the virtual
Network appears in the search results
select it and click create now enter the
following values for subscription select
your subscription for the resource Group
select use existing and then select RG
web server for the virtual network name
enter my vet one word with a capital
letter V for the region enter East us
and then select next now it's time to
enable dos protection for your virtual
Network by selecting enable Azure dos
Network protection select the plan one
you created earlier click next to move
to IP addresses leave this as the
default select review and create and
then select create that's it you have
now enabled dos protection for your
virtual Network in Azure please note
that once you have enabled Doos
protection for a virtual Network you
cannot move it to another Resource Group
or subscription if you need to move a
virtual network with Doos protection
enabled you must first disable dos
protection after that move the virtual
Network and then enable dos protection
again also note that after the move the
autotuned policy thresholds for all the
protected public IP addresses in the
virtual network will be reset now it's
time to learn how to view protected
resources under protected resources you
can view your protected public IP
addresses and virtual networks or add
more virtual networks to your dos
protection plan congratulations you have
successfully learned how to set up Azure
DS Network protection using the Azure
portal by following the steps outlined
in this video you should now now be able
to create a Dos protection plan and
enable dos protection for your virtual
Network in just a few clicks later in
this lesson you'll be creating a virtual
network with a virtual machine do not
try to create dos protection for the
sake of testing it out because the cost
is very high you now know what Azure DS
protection is and how to configure it
through the Azure portal to protect a
virtual network but you haven't really
explored its key features and best
practices which is what this video is
about in this video you will learn about
always on traffic monitoring adaptive
realtime tuning dos protection Telemetry
monitoring and alerting Azure dos
protection mitigation policies web
application firewall for resource
attacks and protection planning let's
start with always on traffic monitoring
Azure dos protection constantly monitors
traffic usage and when the traffic
threshold is exceeded Doos mitigation is
automatically initiated during
mitigation traffic is redirected to the
Dos Protection Service where several
checks are performed to ensure packets
conform to internet specifications and
are not malformed attack traffic is
dropped and the remaining traffic is
forwarded to its intended destination
within a few minutes of attack detection
you'll be notified via Azure monitor
metrics and you can save logs on DDOS
protection Telemetry which will allow
you to save them to security information
and event management systems or seen
metric data in Azure monitor for dos
protection is retained for 30 days next
is adaptive real-time tuning tailored
protection policies are necessary per
subscriber because of the complexity of
attx and the application specific needs
of subscribers Azure DS protection
accomplishes this by using automatic
learning of the traffic patterns of each
subscriber for layer three the network
layer and layer four the transport layer
of the OSI model other items in this
lesson also refer to OSI model layers
and you can refer to the additional
resources reading for a source that will
refresh your memory with adaptive
real-time tuning it doesn't matter what
amount of traffic you receive as long as
there are legitimate connections Azure
can automatically scale there's also dos
protection Telemetry monitoring and
alerting Telemetry refers to information
gathered from a network system that can
be examined to keep track of the network
and the condition efficiency ET abbility
and security of its parts Azure dos
protection gives a lot of information
about attack and how well the protection
is working this information can be
accessed using Azure monitor you can
configure alerts for any of the Azure
monitor metrics that DS protection uses
you can also integrate Telemetry logging
with other monitoring services like
Splunk or Azure monitor logs or with
Azure storage for advanced analysis via
the Azure monitor Diagnostics interface
next there are mitigation policies dos
protection for a public IP applies
automatic mitigation policies for TCP
TCP sin and UDP you can view the policy
thresholds by selecting the inbound
packets to trigger dos mitigation metric
as Illustrated in this screenshot the
increases and decreases can clearly be
seen as well as the expected Baseline
for incoming traffic the policy
thresholds are automatically configured
via machine learning based Network
traffic profiling doof's mitigation
occurs for an IP address under attack
only when the network traffic exceeds
the limit specified in the policy if the
public IP address is under attack you'll
be notified through the under dos attack
or not metric configuring an alert on
this metric is recommended so you'll be
notified when an active dos mitigation
is performed on your public IP address
the spikes on the graph indicate
incidents where potential attacks
happened
next there is web application firewalls
for resource attacks at the application
layer you should configure a web
application firewall or Waf to help
secure web applications a Waf inspects
inbound web traffic to block attacks
Azure provides WAP as a feature of azure
application Gateway for centralized
protection of your web applications from
common exploits and vulnerabilities
there are also other Waf offerings
available from Azure partners that might
be helpful last is protection planning
which is not a feature of azure dos
protection but a best practice for
subscribers to make the most of the
features it's essential for a subscriber
to prepare for a Dos attack and
understand how a system will perform
under such circumstances it is important
to design an incident management
response plan as part of this effort for
example dos protection isn't
automatically deployed so if you have
DOS protection it is recommended to make
sure that is enabled on the virtual
network of Internet facing endpoints and
configuring dos alerts can help
constantly monitor potential attacks on
the infrastructure independent
monitoring of applications is also
advised knowing the normal behavior of
an application can help you prepare for
any deviations during a Dos attack and
take prompt action in this video you
learned about the key features of Dos
protection and the best practice of
protection planning aure dos protection
constantly monitor traffic utilization
and initiates mitigation when the
traffic threshold is exceeded it also
uses automatic learning of per customer
traffic patterns and minimizes false
positives the rich Telemetry provided by
Azure DS protection can be used to
configure alerts and integrate logging
with other monitoring services and Azure
storage you also learned how dust
protection applies autotuned mitigation
policies and notifies you when a public
IP address is under attack for resource
attacks at the application layer it is
recommended to configure a web
application firewall for centralized
protection finally you learned about the
importance of protection planning which
includes designing an incident
management response plan ensuring dos
protection is enabled on Virtual Network
endpoints and independently monitoring
applications to understand their normal
behavior overall Azure DS protection
provides a comprehensive solution for
protecting against dos attacks as one of
azure's on demands scalable Computing
resources virtual machines offer users
greater control over their Computing
environment this video provides an
overview of virtual machine
considerations and uses before creating
a virtual machine several factors should
be considered such as resource names
locations sizes and
pricing it is crucial to choose the
appropriate size as it will affect
processing power memory storage capacity
and network bandwidth remember that the
region you select for your virtual
machine affects the latency and
performance for your end users and
determines the physical location where
your virtual machine runs availability
options such as availability sets and
availability zones provide redundancy
and high availability for your virtual
machine to ensure that it remains
available even if there is a failure on
a physical host or in a data center the
VM size you select for your virtual
machine determines the amount of CPU
memory and storage resources available
for your work cloud and can affect the
performance and cost of your virtual
machine an Azure virtual machine gives
you the flexibility of virtualization
without having to buy and maintain the
physical Hardware that runs it however
you still need to maintain the virtual
machine by performing tasks such as
configuring installing and patching the
software that runs on it Azure virtual
machines are a coste effective and
flexible solution that can be used in
various ways some examples are to to
develop and test Azure virtual machines
offer a quick and easy way to create a
computer with specific configurations
required to code and test an application
you can run applications in the cloud
because demand for your application can
fluctuate it might make economic sense
to run it on a virtual machine in Azure
you pay for extra virtual machines when
you need them and shut them down when
you don't you can also create an
extended data center virtual machines in
an Azure virtual Network can easily be
connected to your organization's Network
in conclusion Azure virtual machines are
a powerful costeffective and flexible
solution for a variety of computing
needs with greater control over the
Computing environment users can choose
the appropriate size and pricing to
match their specific requirements while
maintaining the virtual machine is
necessary it is far less cumbersome than
managing physical Hardware from
development and testing to cloud-based
applications and extended data centers
virtual machines offer a multitude of
use cases that can be easily scaled up
or out to meet growing demands in this
video you will learn how to create a
virtual machine in Azure and explore the
concepts of region availability and VM
size step one is to log into the Azure
portal step two is to create a new
virtual machine once you are signed into
the Azure portal select the create a
resource button located on the left hand
side of the screen search for virtual
machine and select create step three is
to fill out the basics tab in the basics
tab of the create a virtual machine
wizard fill out the following
information that is subscription select
the subscription you want to use
Resource Group select an existing
Resource Group or create a new one
virtual machine name enter a name for
your virtual machine select a region
that is closest to you or your end users
now step four is to choose your
availability options in the basics tab
you can choose between four availability
options the first option is no
infrastructure redundancy required this
option is suitable for non-critical
workloads or when you do not require any
redundancy or high availability
availability Zone this option is
suitable for critical workloads or when
you require High availability and
redundancy virtual machine scale set
this option in azure allows you to
easily deploy and manage a group of
identical load balanced VMS that are
automatically scale-based on demand
availability set this option is suitable
for workloads that require some level of
redundancy and availability but do not
require the high availability provided
by the availability Zone step five is to
choose the image and size in the basics
tab select Windows Server 2022 data
center Azure Edition x64 or Gen 2 as the
image and select an appropriate size for
your virtual machine based on your
workload requirements and budget step
six is to enter a username and password
enter a username and strong password
that meets the Azure password
requirements now step seven is to
configure Diss and networking head over
to the diss Tab and configure your
virtual machine storage settings in
Microsoft Azure this is accomplished
using managed disk which provide a
simplified storage solution for your
virtual machines by using managed disk
you can offload storage management task
to Azure eliminating the need to
configure and manage storage accounts
yourself in the next tab networking you
will need to create a new virtual
Network or select an existing one create
a new subnet or select an existing one
and create a new public IP address or
select an existing one now you can
select the create button to create your
virtual machine you have to wait for for
Azure to deploy and provision your
virtual machine which may take a few
minutes once the deployment is complete
you can go to Resource and you'll note
that the virtual machine is ready and
running by following these steps you
have created a virtual machine in
Microsoft Azure and explore the concepts
of region availability options and VM
core size congratulations you have
successfully spun up a virtual machine
in
Azure Microsoft Azure provides many
resources and services that can replace
or complement on premise services like
on- premise services are provided over a
network to allow communication between
services and network components
Microsoft Azure also uses networks for
services however these networks are
virtual networks or v-net over the next
few minutes you'll learn about the
components of an Azure virtual Network
and how they are interconnected to allow
different services within Microsoft
Azure to
communicate Azure virtual networks or
v-ets are the fundamental building block
of a private Network in Azure similar to
an on premises Network that uses a
switch to interconnect devices v-ets
enable you to build complex virtual
networks but the additional benefits of
using v-ets compared to on premise
networks are their scalability
availability and isolation as part of
azure infrastructure virtual networks
can connect to Virtual machines or VMS
and other Azure resources such as the
app service environment Azure kubernetes
service and firewall Services v-ets can
also connect to other Azure resource
types such as Azure SQL databases and
storage accounts ultimately Azure v-ets
enable resources in Azure to securely
communicate with each other the internet
and on premises networks all resources
in a v-net can communicate outbound to
the Internet by default and you can
communicate inbound to Resource by
assigning a public IP address or a
public load balancer to it when adding
resources on Azure it is good practice
to add resources used for related tasks
to a resource Group to keep them
separate from others resource groups act
as logical containers into which Azure
resources like web apps virtual networks
and storage accounts are deployed and
managed like an on-premise Network a
v-net can consist of multiple subnets
but will also have a network security
group or NSG for each subnet you create
a network security group allows you to
filter the inbound and outbound traffic
through your virtual Network or subnet
you can also use nsgs to filter traffic
by source and destination IP address
port or protocol just like physical
networks different subnets in v-ets need
to be able to talk to each other can you
recall what network device allows two
subnets to communicate in a physical
Network that's right a router so how
does it work with v-ets the simplest and
quickest way to connect your virtual
networks is by using Azure virtual
Network peering it enables you to
connect to Azure virtual networks and
provide routing capabilities just like a
writer does in an on- premise Network
peer virtual networks operate as a
single connected Network there are two
types of peering Regional and Global
virtual Network peering Regional virtual
Network peering connects Azure virtual
networks that exist in the same physical
region like West us or East US whereas
Global virtual Network appearing
connects the regional virtual networks
now that you understand what v-ets are
let's discuss the Azure Network topology
the hubs spoke Network hubs spoke
networks are commonly used for hybrid
cloud architectures in a hubs spoke
Network a central virtual Network called
the Hub is connected to several other
virtual networks called the spokes this
type of network can be simpler to
implement and maintain in the long term
compared to interconnecting lots of
spokes together the The Hub acts as a
central location for managing external
connectivity into and out of azure and
coordinates all Communications to and
from the spokes it also hosts services
that can be used by multiple spoke
networks across Azure in this way the
Hub and spoke topology gives companies
it departments an effective way to
centrally enforce security policies the
spokes host different Services known as
workloads and connect to the central Hub
through virtual Network peering let's
exam examine an example of a hubs spoke
network with two v-ets each with a
different workload one for a website and
one for a quote app both v-ets or spokes
are connected to a central Hub and the
Hub provides a firewall and dos
protection that is connected to the
internet and on premise offices so far
you've learned that v-ets are essential
in building out a comprehensive Network
in the cloud and utilizing Azure
Services across your network but how can
businesses with on premise networks
start using vets well Azure makes it
possible to connect on premise computers
and networks to a virtual network using
any of the following options point to
site virtual private Network sight
tosite VPN or Azure Express rout when
working towards integrating your on
premises network with Azure you need a
bridge between the two networks and
Azure VPN Gateway provides this
functionality a VPN Gateway sends
encrypted traffic between the two
networks over the internet gateways
support multiple connections that root
the VPN tunnels through the available
bandwidth although a virtual Network can
only have one Gateway assigned you can
also use a VPN Gateway for Network to
network connections in Azure Azure
Express right is another option to
consider for bridging Express right
allows you to extend your on premises
networks over a private connection to
Azure this connection is facilitated by
a connectivity or Cloud exchange
provider Express right extends wider
than just Azure resources and allows you
to establish connections to other
Microsoft cloud services like Office 365
in this video you learn that network
connectivity is key to delivering
services on premises but it's just as
important in the cloud Microsoft Azure
uses virtual networks or v-ets to
provide this connectivity to Services
Azure virtual networks enables you to
create subnets and add additional
Network filtering via network security
groups NSG
these different virtual networks can be
connected together using virtual Network
peering within Azure regions and
globally and each of these v-ets creates
spokes that can all connect to a hub Hub
spoke networks forms the foundations of
an Azure Network you should now have a
deeper understanding of azure
infrastructure and how different
components interact this knowledge will
help you with the planning and
implementation of security measures for
cloud
infrastructure with ever more more cyber
security threats around the world
protecting data and users should always
be a priority on any network firewalls
have always been a key part of a network
defense strategy and it's no different
when using Cloud Technologies and
Microsoft Azure over the next few
minutes you will learn about the
features of the Azure firewall and how
it integrates with other Azure services
to provide protection Azure firewall is
a cloud-based Security Service managed
by Microsoft it protects Azure virtual
networks and their resources by letting
you manage and enforce connectivity
policies centrally like all firewalls
Azure firewall acts as a shield for your
Azure virtual Network allowing only
legitimate incoming and outgoing traffic
while denying unauthorized or unknown
traffic you can configure Azure firewall
with filtering rules according to
different parameters these include
source and destination IP address port
and protocol Azure firewall is a fully
stateful networ Network firewall that
tracks the operating State and the
characteristics of network connections
traversing it for Azure firewall to do
its job effectively you must set it up
as a barrier between a trusted Network
you want to protect and an untrusted
Network that offers potential threats
most commonly you deploy Azure firewall
as a barrier between your Azure virtual
Network and the internet you can deploy
Azure firewall within a subnet of a
single Azure virtual Network however in
most configurations Azure firewall is
provisioned inside a hub of a virtual
Network this provides the optimal
position to build a security policy
because all traffic to and from the
spoke v-ets on premises networks and the
internet can be filtered at this point
let's move on to discuss the deployment
of azure firewalls interestingly an
Azure firewall is deployed with two IP
addresses a public IP address to which
all INB traffic is sent and a private IP
address to which or outbound traffic is
sent all traffic inbound and outbound
goes through the firewall by default the
firewall denies access to everything
it's up to the network administrators to
configure the firewall with the
conditions under which the traffic is
allowed through the firewall each
condition is called a rule and each rule
applies one or more checks on the data
only traffic that passes every check in
all the rules is allowed to pass through
by placing the Azure firewall at the Hub
of the Network the firewall can filter
traffic whether it is coming directly
from the internet from an on premise
Network or from different spokes or
v-ets for example a business could run a
web server within spoke one and only
allow Network traffic on ports 80 and
443 for the web service thereby reducing
the risk from threats Azure caters for a
wide range of security needs the Azure
firewall has three different skews to
choose from based on specific business
needs basic standard and premium first
Azure firewall basic is ideal for small
to medium-sized businesses that only
have a few virtual machines and need
protection for low data throughput
demands typically less than 250 megabits
per second Azure firewall standard is
recommended for customers that have
multiple virtual machines and therefore
require autoscaling to handle Peak
traffic periods of up to 30 gbits per
second this option provides protection
for OSI layer 3 to7 processes which is
the network to application layer the
standard option also supports Enterprise
features like threat intelligence domain
name system or DNS proxy custom DNS and
web categories Azure firewall premium
provides the most comprehensive cover
and it's for customers who need to
secure highly sensitive applications
such as payment processing in addition
to all features of the Azure firewall
standard it also supports Advanced
threat protection capabilities in this
video you've learned that that Azure
firewall protects virtual networks
within Microsoft Azure and is typically
set up within the Hub of a network this
position enables it to filter traffic to
and from the internet and on premise
networks additionally from this position
it can also protect services that are
hosted within Network spokes by setting
up denying access rules Azure firewall
can filter traffic according to source
and destination IP address port and
protocol using a firewall to guard the
entrance to your virtual network is a
significant part of your Cloud security
strategy and Azure firewall offers many
useful features and levels of skus for
keeping your virtual Network guarded
from malicious traffic previously you
learned that Microsoft Azure firewall
has different SKS offering different
levels of protection but there are
certain factors that determine what skew
will be optimal for a network imagine a
website where fans can book tickets for
soccer matches soccer is a very popular
sport so websites like these have a
large amount of user data and handle
thousands of online transactions and
that makes it a lucrative Target for
cyber attacks ticket sales are
significantly higher for the soccer
finals than during the rest of the
season so they need a firewall that can
scale according to the fluctuation in
data traffic it sounds like Microsoft
Azure firewall is the perfect option for
this kind of website in this video you
will learn about key features of the
different firewall levels and
specifically focus on how Azure firewall
standard protects networks earlier you
learned that all Azure firewalls can
filter traffic based on one or more of
the following three Network parameters
IP address port and protocol for example
you might use a Network rule to allow
outbound traffic to access a particular
DNS server at a specified IP address
like
16863
12916 using Port 53 and the UDP protocol
all full Azure firewalls can also filter
traffic based on a fully qualified
domain name or
fqdn for example you might use an
application rule to allow outbound
traffic to access a server within the
Sam Scoops network using the fqdn ice
cream. Sam scs.com but there are some
significant differences between the
basic and standard Azure firewall SKS
for starters one of the big differences
is how they scale the basic version can
only scale to allow a maximum data
throughput of 250 megabits per second
for example handling traffic for a
text-based website whereas the standard
firewall can scale to 30 gigabits per
second to accommodate changing Network
traffic flows this is ideal for video on
demand websites this means that with the
standard option businesses like the
soccer ticket vendor don't need to worry
if traffic levels to their Cloud
networks increase or decrease the second
big difference is that the basic
firewall only only supports threat
intelligence alerts whereas the standard
supports threat intelligence based
filtering this means that the standard
firewall will alert you to traffic going
to or coming from flagged malicious IP
addresses and domains but also
automatically deny its passing but how
does Azure standard firewall know about
these flagged IP addresses and domains
it uses continuous data streams that
provide information on threats that can
affect an organization's security this
is known as the Microsoft threat int IG
feed this feed is generated from
multiple sources including the Microsoft
cyber security team it comprises a list
of indicators of compromise or ioc's
that includes malicious URLs malware
hashes and malicious email and IP
addresses related to attacks worldwide
as Microsoft gathers this data it's fed
into its security devices such as
firewalls by automatically creating
rules to block threats that have been
detected anywhere in the world getting
alerts about threats will B benefit the
soccer ticket vendor but they can
benefit even more from automatic
protection against these threats the
standard firewall also has additional
features that simplify administrative
tasks for example the web categories
feature lets administrators allow or
deny user access to entire categories of
websites such as gambling websites
social media websites and others in this
video you learned that the basic Azure
firewall provides useful filtering tools
just like an on premise firewall whereas
the standard firewall uses cloud enabled
scalability to deal with traffic demand
fluctuations the standard firewall also
differs from the basic with additional
automation features and threat
intelligence-based filtering
additionally features like web
categories make the standard firewall
easier to manage it is important to
understand the features of different
Azure firewall skews to determine what
option will work best for different
businesses you now know about the major
differences between the basic and
standard firewall But be sure to explore
the complete list of differences between
the different SKS in the additional
resources reading at the end of this
lesson can you imagine managing your
social or work life without using apps
there are millions of web applications
that people use every day and because of
their popularity they are a major Target
for cyber attacks did you know that Bots
or cyber attackers probe new web apps
for weaknesses within minutes of
deployment in fact as soon as an app
launches threat actors start testing it
for vulnerabilities and such probes will
most likely continue for the lifetime of
the app this has major implications for
Sam scoop's new web app which is going
to launch soon Sam can request the app
developers to build custom protection
but that will be difficult and
timeconsuming additionally attackers
come up with new methods all the time
this means developing protection for the
app will be a continuous process to keep
up with the latest threats fortunately
Azure has a tool tools specifically
developed for app security that can
overcome these challenges Azure web
application firewall in this video you
will learn how the Azure web application
firewall protects web applications from
common exploits and vulnerabilities
let's start by discussing how the Azure
web application firewall forms part of
the Azure Services you can use to
develop and deploy a web app by now you
should know that Azure app Services can
be used to quickly build and deploy a
web app that's available on the internet
and services such as Azure SQL database
and Azure active directory provide data
and authentication for web apps to
complete the service offering Microsoft
also offers protection for web apps with
the Azure web application firewall it
provides centralized protection for web
applications from common attacks such as
SQL injection and cross-site scripting
let's consider an example most users of
Sam scoop's web app will only be able to
access data such as the menu prices and
delivery information some of Sam's
employees on the other hand will be
authorized to sign in and also access
account information and other vulnerable
data in each case users can only access
the data that the web app allows them to
access and a proper access control
system will protect data from
unauthorized access right but web app
security is not that simple there are
many common exploits that malicious
hackers and Bots might use to Target
these vulnerable abilities to gain
unauthorized access to the app by
gaining access to your network attackers
can steal corrupt or destroy your data
developers could spend countless hours
protecting Sam Scoops web app against
these exploits however it's easier
faster and more efficient to deploy the
Azure web application firewall the Azure
web application firewall has been
configured by Microsoft's team of
Security Experts to defend against
common exploits and it's constantly
updated to defend against new threats
but how exactly does it work the
firewall sits between the internet and
the web app to provide centralized
protection of azure hosted web apps
Azure web application firewall protects
web apps from common threats and only
allows authorized users through to the
application a great advantage of the
Azure web application firewall is that
you can deploy it in minutes this means
that the Sam Scoops web app can get
powerful protection from known threats
immediately all without writing a single
line of security code it's that great in
this video you learned that because web
applications are so popular they are a
major Target for cyber security attacks
with so many different and new attack
methods that constantly arise it is a
continuous difficult expensive and
timeconsuming process to develop
protection for web apps in contrast the
Azure web application firewall can be
deployed in minutes to instant provide
powerful protection for Azure hosted web
apps against hundreds of common exploits
and what's more Microsoft updates the
web application firewall continuously to
provide protection from the latest
exploits that's why it's a better
security option for Sam scoop's new web
app by now you know that the Azure
firewall protects Azure services and
v-ets with different kinds of rules it's
time to learn how this works in practice
in this video you will learn how to
deploy an azure firewall in the Azure
portal on the Azure portal homepage
click firewalls in the Azure Services
bar next click create firewall once
loaded the create firewall screen will
display and it has a number of settings
that you need to fill in for the initial
firewall creation first select your
Azure subscription and the resource
Group you intend to use in this case the
firewall Resource Group the firewall
will need a name typically something you
will recognize in the future for this
example give it the name of firewall
test next you need to specify the Azure
region in which the firewall should be
deployed in this example use West Europe
notice that the Azure firewall can be
placed in a number of availability zones
for redundancy but leave it as none you
now have the choice between the
different firewall SKS from basic
through to premium for this example
select the standard firewall wall
previously you learned that firewalls
can be managed by a firewall policy this
is good when managing many firewalls but
since you're only configuring one
firewall choose firewall rules instead
next you need to specify the virtual
Network on which the firewall needs to
be select the v-net that we created
previously the firewall Hub v-net to get
access to the internet the firewall
needs a public IP address so you need to
create a new address for it click on add
new and give it a name in this case
firewall Pub and click okay for this
firewall deployment you do not need
Force tunneling to manage traffic so
leave it at the default disabled setting
then click review plus create on the
next page you can review the settings
that you just configured and if
everything is in order click create
Azure will now deploy the firewall which
will take a few minutes at first you
will notice the public IP addresses that
are being created and then the firewall
itself will be created once it's been
deployed a go to Resource button appears
which you can click to go straight to
the firewall deploying the Azure
standard firewall is one of the first
steps in protecting your Azure v-ets and
virtual machines careful planning will
then be needed to move on to the next
stage of firewall configuration taking
into account what the firewall should be
protecting and following an
organization's security policy once an
Azure firewall has been deployed you
need to configure its natat Network and
application rules these rules will
determine how the firewall secures your
Azure deployment and what traffic it
allows through to your v-ets and virtual
machines in this video you will learn
how to set up each of these three types
of firewall rules you will also learn
how to change Microsoft threat
intelligence from alert to alert and
deny on the Azure portal homepage click
firewalls in the Azure Services bar to
go to the firewall Services page where
you will set up firewall rules but
before doing so you need to get the
firewall's new public IP address on the
main page click firewall public IP and
copy the IP address for later use to go
back to the main firewall page use the
directory navigation at the top then
click on go to Resource there are many
settings that you can configure on the
firewall Services page but in this video
you will focus on creating fire wall
rules so click rules in the left panel
three tabs will appear for the three
different rule collections the not rule
collection the Network rule collection
and the application rule collection
start by creating a Nat rule collection
by clicking on addn rule collection all
rule collections need a name and it's
good practice to give them a name that
identifies the task they are fulfilling
in this case just name it not test every
rule needs a priority number which
determines the order of processing
these numbers should be in increments of
100 between collections to allow you to
insert new rules in between for instance
at
150 in this example use the priority
number of 200 you can create a number of
rules under collection but you are just
going to create one call the rule Nat
one web as it's going to translate the
public IP to the web server's private IP
for the protocol choose TCP and add a
star for the source IP which means
anything as the IP could be from
anywhere in the world paste the
firewalls public IP address that you
copied earlier in the space for the
destination address the destination Port
will be 443 for secure web traffic which
will be translated into the address of
the web server
17216 4 keep the same port 443 for the
translated Port once you are done click
add to create the rule after a short
time the rule will display play Under
the not rule collection tab Network rule
collection creation is very similar
click add Network rule collection and
give the rule a name again something
relevant to the job it's doing in this
example it will be a rule to allow DNS
traffic so name it DNS and give it a
priority of 200 set the action to allow
which is the alternative to the deny
action next under the rules and IP
addresses section give the first ruler
name in this case dns1 and select the
protocol that it will allow for DNS in
this case UDP next select the source IP
address which in this example is the web
server with the IP of
17216
1.4 you can specify specific allowed DNS
service at the destination address but
in this example add a star thus allowing
anything and add the destination port
for DNS which is 53 once complete click
add the firewall will update adding the
rule in the
background lastly let's create the
application rule collection by clicking
on ADD application rule this rule will
enable access to the Microsoft website
from the web server so name the rule
collection Microsoft using the priority
number of 200 and choosing allow as the
action for application rules you use the
target fqdn section give the individual
ruler name in this case Microsoft next
specify the source IP address of the web
server
17216 1.4 and specifying the protocol
that can be used which is HTTP and
https the last section to fill in is the
target fqm box which in this case will
be
www.microsoft.com again more rules can
be added but for now click add the
firewall will again update with the
latest rule finally let's configure
threat intelligence which you can do
from the leftand menu under the setting
section by default thread intelligence
is set to alert only you can change it
to off or alert and deny if you want
threat intelligence to automatically
create rules select alert and deny and
click on the save button which will turn
on this automatic threat intelligence
feature in this video you learned how to
configure three firewall rule collection
types natat Network and application
these rules have many different
variables that can help to customize
network security by permitting or
denying certain traffic you also
discovered how easy it is to turn on
Microsoft threat intelligence to
automatically create deny rules for new
threats meet Lara she loves animals and
she has two dogs Nimbus and Mushu
besides her dogs her other big love in
life is biochemistry and her job brings
those two passions together Lara works
at a research firm that develops Medical
Treatments for pets she's especially
involved in research on a biomed based
vaccine for a common dog virus but one
morning when she arrives at work she
notices a team of investigators crowded
around the server room their Network had
been hacked they are busy unraveling a
plot where the company's firewall had
been hacked to gain access to classified
data such as protocols and formulas
including all her hard work on the
biomed vaccine she would have lost
months of work the attempt almost worked
but was ultimately unsuccessful however
even though gaining access to the data
failed the attackers still caused chaos
they launched a Dos attack on the
company website taking it offline for
hours the cyber security investigators
find out that a famous team of black hat
hackers are behind the security breach
and attack black hat hackers are known
for their illegal activities and
malicious intent they are the bad guys
highly skilled individuals who use cyber
security techniques and tools for
personal through malicious or threat
activity they might steal change or
delete data to combat future security
threats the company hires a cyber
security analyst to assess
vulnerabilities in their system and
propose improvements the analyst finds
that the firewall protecting the network
has a number of weaknesses that made it
possible for the hackers to expose the
network with a two-pronged attack the
first weakness is poor firewall
management as passwords used to protect
the the firewall are weak and the
firewall itself hadn't been updated with
the latest software for years the
hackers used a dictionary attack to gain
easy access to the firewall that still
relies on simple usernames and passwords
this enabled them to open a path into
the network to search for data they can
sell on the dark web after failing to
retrieve this data they attempted to
cover their tracks by performing a Dos
attack flooding the firewall with
traffic and taking it offline the system
was overwhelmed causing a number of
services to fail including the company's
website the analyst suggests a cloud
transformation plan that involves moving
the network to Azure and installing the
Azure standard firewall in combination
with DOs protection moving to Azure
ensures better authentication and
authorization policies enforced by Azure
active directory more importantly
Microsoft continually updates the Azure
firewall service making sure the
firewall is a secure and robust as
possible against zero day attacks and
with Microsoft's Advanced threat
protection and dos protection working
alongside the Azure firewall the network
won't be overwhelmed by dos attacks and
is protected in other ways too this plan
protects all services and also takes out
the strain of updating and managing them
another great benefit of moving these
services to the cloud is that Lara and
the other employees can work as they did
before nothing about their work
processes changes and they can carry on
knowing that they are better protected
with Azure to make sure the new
protective measures work the analysts
suggest a purposeful hack of the new
system once the services have moved to
Azure that's right just to make sure the
company hires a team of white hat
hackers to test the new security
measures white hat hackers also known as
ethical hackers or penetration testers
are expert hackers who purposely try to
hack their clients systems to find find
and report on vulnerabilities
fortunately the network security
withstands the attempts of the white
hats thanks to Azure and the great job
done by the new cyber security analyst
Lara is relieved that the whole episode
is over allowing her to once again focus
on her life
passions all virtual machines are
potential targets for an attack when a
VM is successfully compromised it's used
as an entry point to attack further
resources within a virtual environment
Scoops has the new web server up and
running in Microsoft Azure and is
looking to use more virtual machines for
different aspects of the business a
firewall has been deployed to protect
these virtual machines but ports like
RDP and SSH have to be open to allow
remote access from management through
that firewall which creates a security
risk and threat actors actively hunt
accessible machines with open management
ports to solve this dilemma Microsoft
Azure offers just in time or jit VM
access which is used to prevent these
attacks and in this video you will learn
how jit can protect virtual machines as
well as allowing remote access when
needed first what exactly is just in
time VM access it's a security feature
that allows administrators to control
and limit access to VMS by enabling
temporary OnDemand access for authorized
users it works by defining a set of
policies and rules that determine when
and for whom access to a VM should be
granted as with all cyber security
prevention techniques the goal is to
reduce the attack surface in this case
that means having fewer open ports
especially management ports but the
problem is legitimate users also use
these ports so it's not practical to
keep them closed all of the time the
solution is to configure and enable just
in time access which which will block
inbound traffic but allow access on
specific management ports this reduces
exposure to attacks while providing easy
access to connect VMS when needed jit is
a part of Defender for cloud which
ensures deny all inbound traffic rules
exist for your selected ports in the
network security group or NSG and Azure
firewall rules these deny all rules
restrict access to your Azure vm's
management ports and defend them from
Attack if other rules already exist for
the selected ports then those existing
rules take priority over the new deny
all inbound traffic rules however if
there are no existing rules on the
selected ports then the new rules take
top priority in the NSG and Azure
firewall jit offers the perfect security
solution for the Sam Scoops virtual
machine running its website because the
developer of the website only needs
access when updating content once a
month enabling jit keeps the machine
secure until the developer needs access
to it say the web developer requests
access to the VM web server Defender for
cloud checks that he has Azure ro-based
access control or arbach if the request
is approved Defender for cloud
configures the nsgs and Azure firewall
to allow inbound traffic to the selected
ports from the relevant IP address or
range for the amount of time that was
specified when giving just in time
access when you enable jit VM access for
your Ms you can create a policy that
determines which ports need protection
how long the ports should remain open
and the approved IP addresses that can
access these ports the policy enables
you to control what users can do when
they request access in this example of
the activity log in the Azure portal you
can note that requests are logged
allowing you to easily Monitor and audit
access for all jit events the policy
also helps you quickly identify the
existing VMS that have jit VM access
enabled and you can note the VMS where
jit VM access is recommended in
conclusion for Sam Scoops jit protection
of the virtual machines makes sense for
the business as most of the time
management access will not be needed in
this video you learned that jit is a
great way to control access and reduce
the risk from open management ports on
your Azure virtual machines it enables
you to close down these ports and only
open them when a legitimate user needs
access to that particular
machine you learned how to better manage
access to Virtual machines with just in
time or jit but gaining access to a
machine is not the only way data can be
accessed data stored in the cloud could
be hosted with other companies data all
on the same hardware and when
transporting the data it is vulnerable
to interception when using any public
cloud service it is critical to protect
data at all times across the cloud
and this is where encryption comes in in
this video you will explore the best
practices around encryption when using
virtual machines in Microsoft Azure and
learn how to describe Key Management
processes that are used to protect data
to understand the different types of
encryption you should know that all data
can be in different states at different
moments in time at the most basic level
data can have the following two states
data at rest is settled and stored
somewhere it can include storage objects
and files that are on physical media the
media can be Optical discs or magnetic
discs such as hard drive discs or hdds
and data in transit is being moved
whether over a network or between two
locations or between
applications first let's examine data at
rest encryption this kind of encryption
is a mandatory step to ensure data
privacy compliance and sovereignty the
at rest encryption in Azure uses
symmetric encryption to encrypt and
decrypt large amounts of data quickly
and the following two best practices are
recommended you should apply dis
encryption to help Safeguard your data
you can use Azure dis encryption for
Linux VMS or Azure dis encryption for
Windows VMS disk encryption combines the
industry standard Linux DM Crypt or
Windows bit Locker feature to provide
volume encryption for the operating
system and data diss you should also use
encryption to help mitigate risks
related to unauthorized data access to
do so you have to encrypt your drives
before you write sensitive data to them
protecting data in transit is also an
essential part of any data protection
strategy because data is moving back and
forth from many locations it is
recommended to use TLS protocols to
exchange data across different locations
in some circumstances you can isolate
the entire Communication channel between
your on premises and Cloud
infrastructures by using a VPN it also
depends what service is being used and
by whom for example Azure customer
traffic has to be encrypted when it
moves between data centers in other
words outside the physical boundaries of
Microsoft's control a data link layer
encryption method using the i e
802.1 AE Max security standards also
known as maxc is applied from point to
point across the underlying Network
Hardware the packets are encrypted on
the devices before being sent preventing
physical man-in-the-middle sniffing and
spoofing attacks best practices for data
in transit include securing access from
Individual workstations located on
premises to an Azure virtual Network by
using a point to site VPN securing
access from multiple workstations
located on premises to an Azure virtual
Network by using a site to site VPN and
moving larger data sets over a dedicated
high-speed Wan link if you choose to use
express right to create a high-speed Wan
link you can also encrypt the data at
the application Level by using SSL TLS
or other protocols for added protection
next let's move on to Azure Key
Management in Azure encryption keys can
be either platform managed or customer
managed platform managed keys or pmk are
encryption keys that are generated
stored and managed entirely by Azure
customers do not interact with pmk for
example the keys used for Azure data
encryption at rest are pmk by default
customer manag keys or cmks on the other
hand are those that can be read created
deleted updated and or administered by
one or more customers for example bring
your own key or by is a cmk scenario in
which a customer Imports keys from an
outside storage location into an Azure
Key Management Service another specific
kind of customer managed key is the key
key encryption key or kek a kek is a
primary key that controls access to one
or more encryption keys that are
themselves encrypted customer managed
keys can be stored on premises or more
commonly in a cloud Key Management
Service key vault is the Microsoft
recommended solution for managing and
controlling access to encryption Keys
used by cloud services permissions to
access keys can be assigned to services
or to users through Azure active
directory account
when you use key Vault the customer
maintains control and Microsoft never
sees your keys and applications don't
have direct access to them in conclusion
securing data across any public Cloud
platform is a vital part of any data
protection strategy whether the data is
in transit or at rest Microsoft Azure
provides encryption mechanisms to cover
both States for at rest data symmetric
encryption is used because it's quick
within Transit data many different
mechanisms exist depending on what
service and location is being used
including VPN or maxc Technologies using
a Key Management Service like Microsoft
key Vault can help manage and control
access to the Keys used across your
Azure deployment following best
practices is essential to reduce risk to
your data and this includes managing the
different encryption keys in use you
have learned about just in time access
and the benefits of protecting but still
allowing access to management ports
configuration of jit can be performed in
a number of different ways you can use
Defender for cloud programmatically
enable jit VM access with your own
custom options or you can enable jit
with default hard-coded parameters from
Azure virtual machines in this video you
will focus on how to configure jit using
hard-coded parameters from Azure virtual
machines enabling SSH remote access
before enabling jit Defender for cloud
has to be enabled
it has a 30-day free trial that converts
to a paid for subscription from the
Azure homepage search for and select
virtual machines click the Sam Scoops
web virtual machine and select
configuration from the leftand menu
select upgrade your Microsoft Defender
for cloud subscription to enable a just
in time access select upgrade on the
Microsoft Defender for cloud page select
continue without installing agents on
the right hand side
you are now running the 30-day Defender
for cloud subscription and now you can
follow along to learn how to enable jit
on a VM from the Azure virtual machines
pages of the Azure portal on the Azure
portal search for and select virtual
machines select the Sam Scoops web
virtual machine you want to protect with
jit in the leftand menu select
configuration you can now select enable
Just In Time by default just in time
access access for the VM for Windows
machines allow RDP access on Port 3389
for 3 hours and from any IP address as
in this
example to edit any of these values and
add SSH access use Microsoft Defender
for Cloud's justtin time page under the
Justin Time VM access click on open
Microsoft Defender for cloud from the
configured tab right click on the VM to
which you want to add a port and select
edit under jit VM access configuration
you can either edit the existing
settings of an already protected port or
add a new custom port to add SSH select
add and add the port number for the SSH
which is
22 select TCP and leave the allowed
Source at per request which is any IP
address also leave the default of 3
hours and select okay now that SSH has
been added you can delete access for RDP
by clicking the three dots on the right
of the page and selecting delete the Sam
Scoops web machine now just supports
remote access via ssh in this video you
saw how jit access can be set up to
manage virtual machines this can be
achieved in a number of ways but to
start you have to enable Defender for
cloud to enable the jit feature from
here you can configure jit via Defender
for cloud or from the virtual machine
itself as in the example once configured
jit restricts access to machines until a
user requests access to the
device you have come to the end of the
first week of the course well done quite
a lot was covered in these lessons so
it's a good idea to revisit the most
important points before you take the
quiz to make sure you're ready let's
start with reviewing lesson one in the
first lesson you were introduced to the
course you reflected on what you H to
learn and how to be successful in the
course and you also familiarized
yourself with the course syllabus lesson
two was all about Azure distributed
denial of service protection you now
know that there are two different types
dods IP protection which protects any
public IP Source without needing a
separate protection plan and dos Network
protection which offers protection for
multiple subscriptions with just one
protection plan you learned that Azure
dos protection uses multiple layers of
protection to guard against and M miate
dos attacks these layers include
firewalls Network segmentation traffic
analysis and machine learning algorithms
in this lesson you also learned how to
configure dos protection and Link it to
a virtual Network and you explored
features of azure dos protection like
always on traffic monitoring the service
constantly monitors traffic usage and
when the traffic threshold is exceeded
dos mitigation is automatically
initiated during mitigation traffic is
re redirected to the Dos Protection
Service where several checks are
performed to ensure packets conform to
internet specifications and are not
malformed attack traffic is dropped and
the remaining traffic is forwarded to
its intended destination it also sends
an alert via Azure monitor metrics
delving deeper into the service you
learned about dos IP and network
protections reference architecture which
is a set of proven best practices for
deploying multiple Windows Virtual
machines and you learned how to monitor
Azure dos protection for security issues
later in the lesson you explored the
basic layout of the Azure portal as well
as the different uses of virtual
machines in Azure for example you can
use them for application development and
testing or running applications in the
cloud perhaps the most important part of
this lesson was the exercise in which
you learned how to create a virtual
machine in the Azure portal next was
lesson three which was about Azure
firewall protection in which you first
learned about the components of virtual
networks or v-ets Azure v-ets enable
resources in Azure to communicate with
each other the internet and on premises
networks to be able to do this you first
need to create a resource Group which
acts as a logical container for Azure
resources like web apps v-ets and
storage accounts so they can be deployed
and managed v-ets are critical and so is
protecting them which you can do with an
Azure firewall that provides centralized
management and enforcement of
connectivity policies allowing
legitimate traffic while blocking
unauthorized or unknown traffic and all
Azure firewalls can filter traffic based
on IP address port and protocol by
placing an Azure firewall at the Hub of
the network the firewall can filter
traffic directly from the internet from
an on premise Network or from different
spokes in this lesson you learned about
the three different firewall skews Azure
firewall basic standard and premium and
you compare the basic and standard
firewalls for example the basic firewall
is ideal for low data throughput demands
typically less than 250 megabits per
second while the standard firewall can
autoscale to handle Peak traffic periods
of up to 30 gigabits per second there's
also the web application firewall or Waf
which forms part of azure services for
web application development and
deployment configured to defend against
common exploits like SQL injection or
cross-site scripting the Waf is
continually updated to counter new
threats and there are multiple types of
firewall rules like threat intelligence
application Network firewall rules and
network address translation or natat for
example Nat is used to translate and
filter traffic based on public IP
addresses and all the types can be
combined in a collection of rules and
one or more collections make up a
firewall policy in the practical activ
activity and exercise in this lesson you
also learned how to create a resource
Group v-ets and three different types of
rule collections for a firewall as well
as deploying and configuring a firewall
last was Lesson Four which was about
just in time access or jit and
encryption here you learned about the
need to protect exposed management ports
via jit just in time access allows
administrators to control and limit
access to Virtual machines by granting
temporary OnDemand access for only
authorized users this clever approach
ensures that management ports are only
open when needed significantly reducing
the attack surface when it comes to
encryption it's vital to know that you
have to protect data at rest and data in
transit remember data at rest is settled
and stored somewhere while data in
transit is moving over a network or
between two locations or applications to
unlock the power of encryption you need
keys and and that's where Azure key
Vault can help it helps with the
management and control of encryption
Keys used by CDE Services key VA also
helps with Secrets management as it can
be used to securely store and tightly
control access to tokens passwords and
other secrets you also learn that there
are two kinds of encryption client side
and server side client side encryption
is performed outside of azure like data
encrypted by an application that's
running in the customer's data center or
data that is is already encrypted when
it is received by Azure with client side
encryption customers maintain complete
control of the keys then there's server
side encryption which has three models
service managed Keys customer managed
keys and service managed keys in
customer controlled Hardware each model
has its own appeal and possesses
specific advantages depending on your
specific needs and requirements let's
not forget about the best practices for
securing Azure resources if you recall
these are ensuring that only authorized
users can set up new VMS and access them
protecting machines from malware
managing VM updates encrypting virtual
hard disk files and monitoring and
restricting VM direct internet
connectivity these all help to reduce
the threat landscape across your Cloud
deployment in Microsoft Azure and your
VM resources on a more practical note
you learned how to create a jit policy
and Implement just in time access to
secure vulnerable ports and that's the
end of this summary if there is anything
that you feel unsure about after
watching this video make sure to revisit
the relevant items before you tackle the
quiz good luck as organizations are
increasingly relying on cloud platforms
for their storage and Computing needs
safeguarding data in the cloud is
becoming more crucial than ever in this
video you will explore the importance of
cloud security and how it is implemented
in Microsoft Azure you'll also discover
how Azure security features are
essential to guard Sam scoop's Cloud
environment against constantly emerging
cyber security threats Microsoft Azure
is one of the leading Cloud platforms
and it offers robust security measures
designed to protect data and ensure the
privacy and integrity of its customers
it's important to understand that cloud
security involves a series of practices
Technologies and policies that work
together to safeguard data stored and
processed in the cloud securing ay
comp's Cloud infrastructure is important
because it prevents unauthorized access
and cyber threats businesses should
Implement measures to defend themselves
against malicious actors attempting to
steal sensitive information or disrupt
operations these measures include
authentication protocols encryption
firewalls and intrusion detection
systems Azure incorporates a wide array
of security features to ensure data
Protection One such feature is aure
active directory which provides robust
identity and access management allowing
administrators to control user
permissions and access levels
additionally Microsoft Defender for
cloud earlier known as Azure security
Center offers continuous monitoring and
threat detection analyzing data and
providing actionable insights to prevent
potential attacks furthermore azure's
complian certifications also strengthen
its Cloud security Microsoft Azure
adheres to rigorous standards and
regulations such as ISO
27001 gdpr and
hiaa you will learn more about this in
later courses in this program this
compliance ensures that businesses
operating in various sectors can meet
industry specific security
requirements next let's explore how Sam
Scoops can utilize azure's Cloud
security features Sam Scoops collects
valuable customer data including payment
information and personal details and
maintaining the security and
confidentiality of this data is vital
for the company's success and reputation
as a reliable Company by migrating their
data to Azure Sam Scoops can Leverage
The platform's robust security features
they can protect their customers
information from potential breaches and
reassure them that their data is safe
and secure azers encryption capabilities
ensure that sensitive data remains
encrypted both during storage and
transmission safeguarding against
unauthorized access furthermore azure's
monitoring tools can help Sam Scoops
maintain compliance with data protection
regulations it enables them to monitor
access logs detect unusual activity and
respond promptly to any security
incidents this proactive approach allows
them to address potential
vulnerabilities before they become major
threats by prioritizing Cloud security
through Azure Sam Scoops gains a
competitive Advantage they can promote
the trustworthiness of their brand
demonstrating their their commitment to
protecting customer data with data
breaches becoming more common customers
appreciate companies that prioritize
their privacy and security needs in
conclusion Cloud security is of utmost
importance in today's digital landscape
as organizations increasingly rely on
cloud platforms like Microsoft Azure
implementing robust security measures
becomes vital to protect sensitive data
and ensure the privacy and integrity of
customers Azure offers a wide range of
security features such as Azure active
directory and Microsoft Defender for
cloud which provide identity and access
management continuous monitoring and
threat detection capabilities you've
also learned that cloud Security in
Azure goes beyond just protecting data
it also ensures compliance with industry
specific security for Sam Scoops
migrating their data to Azure enables
them to leverage these security features
and protect their customers valuable
information and what's more by
encrypting data during storage and
transmission Sam Scoops can ensure that
unauthorized access is mitigated
additionally azure's monitoring tools
allow them to monitor access logs and
promptly respond to any security
incidents maintaining compliance with
data protection
regulations protecting data in the cloud
requires a layered security approach and
that's why Microsoft Azure offers many
different services that work together to
protect your Cloud infrastructure
against a wide range of threats so far
you've learned about various Azure
security tools in this course you
covered dos protection and Azure
firewall in depth and you are also
introduced to elements of Microsoft
Defender for cloud such as just in time
access but Microsoft Azure offers even
more features that form part of a
comprehensive set of Security Solutions
designed to help you Safeguard your data
and applications knowing about all the
advanced security features in Azure is
important to excel in a care career in
cyber security in this video you will
explore some of the more advanced
Security Solutions that Azure offers
let's get started Defender for cloud
formerly known as security Center is a
unified Security Management and advanced
threat protection solution with Defender
for cloud you can monitor security
across various resources ensuring
realtime protection you will have access
to security alerts threat intelligence
and actionable recommendations to stay
on top of indust standards and
regulatory
requirements next is Microsoft Sentinel
previously Azure Sentinel which is a
cloud native security information and
event management or Sim and security
orchestration Automation and response or
sore solution leveraging Advanced
analytics and machine learning Microsoft
Sentinel helps you detect and
investigate threats across your entire
organization's infrastructure it can
automatically respond to incidents by
executing guidelines set out in
predefined playbooks to mitigate
potential risks A playbook is basically
a collection of actions that guides
response automation plus Sentinel
seamlessly integrates with third-party
Solutions and other Azure services like
Azure active directory another powerful
Azure security tool Azure active
directory or Azure ad is a cloud-based
identity and access management service
it is your ally in protecting your
applications data and users can you
imagine how complex it becomes to keep
thousands of azure resources PCI DSS
compliant within a large corporation
like this it also allows you to enforce
strong password policies and use
features like multiactor authentication
or MFA and conditional access policies
to ensure secure access and you already
learned about the powerful cloud-based
service Azure key Vault that provides
Secure Storage and management of
cryptographic keys certificates and and
secrets with Azure key Vault you can
protect your cryptographic keys and
secrets with strong key protection you
can deploy certificate securely and
seamlessly across your applications and
infrastructure and then there is also
Azure information protection also known
as AIP which is a cloud-based solution
that helps you classify label and
protect your sensitive data wherever it
goes with Azure information protection
you can classify and label your data
based on its sensitivity this service
allows you to apply Rights Management
policies to control access to your data
ensuring that only authorized
individuals can view and interact with
it furthermore you know about Azure dos
protection by now and how it Shields
your applications and data from
distributed denial of service attacks
with Azure dos protection you receive
always on protection against dos attacks
it scales as needed to handle even the
largest scale attacks keeping your
applications and data safe in conclusion
Microsoft Azure offers a comprehensive
set of Security Solutions that can help
you protect your data and applications
in the
cloud Microsoft Defender for cloud is a
powerful security service that helps
businesses protect their Cloud
environments from cyber threats earlier
you learned that this unified Security
Management solution enables you to
monitor security across various
resources you will explore its different
features benefits and which Azure
Services it can monitor and protect but
which resources does it cover and how
exactly does it work in this video you
will explore how Microsoft Defender for
cloud can benefit small businesses like
Sam Scoops Microsoft Defender for cloud
offers a range of capabilities including
devc Ops Cloud security posture
management or cspm and Cloud workload
protection platform or
cwpp these capabilities collectively
contribute to safeguarding Applications
data and and infrastructure let's
discuss each of these in more detail
devc Ops is a practice that integrates
security into the software development
life cycle ensuring that code is secure
right from the start Defender for cloud
provides insights into the security of
the development environment from a
single location giving businesses peace
of mind cspm or Cloud security posture
management helps businesses identify and
fix security
misconfigurations this reduces the risk
of vulnerabilities being exploited with
cspm Defender for cloud offers
customizable security conditions based
on industry benchmarks cwpp or Cloud
workload protection platform helps
businesses protect their workloads
within the cloud environment it offers a
comprehensive set of security controls
safeguarding applications and data with
cwpp Defender for cloud also offers
real-time threat detection and response
enabling quick actions to mitigate
potential security incidents in addition
to these capabilities Defender for cloud
also offers several other features that
can benefit businesses including
multicloud coverage it can be used to
protect workloads in multiple Cloud
environments including Azure Amazon web
services and Google Cloud platform
Defender for cloud also offers a range
of advanced tools that can help
businesses improve their security
posture including governance features
Regulatory Compliance verification and a
cloud security Explorer furthermore
Defender for cloud gives you a data
aware security posture to reduce data
risk and respond to data breaches it
does this by automatically identifying
data stores containing sensitive
information and continuously uncovering
risks that might lead to data breaches
additionally it also provides attack
path analysis Defender for cloud models
Network traffic to identify potential
risks before implementing any changes in
the environment and lastly it offers
permission management Defender for cloud
offers Microsoft entra permissions
management which simplifies the task of
managing permissions across popular
Cloud platforms by adopting Microsoft
Defender for cloud businesses can
effectively secure their Cloud
environments optimize their operational
efficiency and ensure Regulatory
Compliance here are some specific
benefits that Sam Scoops can expect from
using Microsoft Defender for cloud by
identifying and fixing misconfigurations
it can help Sam Scoops reduce
vulnerabilities that could be exploited
it can help Sam Scoops protect their
workloads with a comprehensive set of
security controls safeguarding their
applications and data it also offers
real-time threat detection and response
it can help Sam Scoops quickly identify
and respond to potential threats
mitigating potential security incidents
furthermore by automating security tasks
Defender for CDE can help Sam Scoops
safe time and money another benefit is a
centralized view of security data
Defender for cloud provides a
centralized view of all security related
data making it easier for Sam Scoops to
identify and respond to threats and it
also improves compliance Defender for
cloud can help Sam Scoops to comply with
industry regulations like health
insurance portability and accountability
act or Hippa General data protection
regulations or gdpr and payment card IND
data security standard or PCI
DSS now that you know what Microsoft
Defender for cloud does let's move on to
which Azure resources it protects it
monitors a vast range of services
including virtual machines and virtual
machine scale sets as well as other
major third-party cloud services like
those from Amazon and Google
additionally it also offers protection
for a range of P Services you might be
familiar with many of these P services
for instance def fender for cloud
protects Azure cloud services which is a
platform for building and deploying
windows and Linux based applications it
also secures Azure app service a fully
managed platform for building and
deploying web mobile and API apps and
you've learned about Azure key Vault
furthermore Defender for cloud protects
Azure kubernetes service which helps you
deploy and manage containerized
applications and it protects Azure load
balancer which distributes traffic
across multiple Azure Resort
make sure to review the list of P
Solutions protected by Microsoft
Defender for cloud later in this lesson
overall Microsoft Defender for cloud is
a powerful security platform that can
help businesses of all sizes protect
their Cloud environments by adopting
Defender for cloud businesses can
improve their security posture reduce
risk and save time and money like many
companies all over the world Sam Scoops
moved their operations to the cloud
because of all of the benefits Azure
holds such as scalability flexibility
and cost efficiency however in doing so
they also face The crucial task of
ensuring the security of their data and
applications over the next few minutes
you will learn about the best practices
that Sam Scoops should follow to ensure
the security of their Cloud
infrastructure firstly to establish a
robust security framework Sam Scoops
must Implement a comprehensive identity
and access management strategy within
its Azure environment this inv involves
leveraging Azure active directory for
user authentication and employing
role-based access control or arbac to
manage permissions effectively
additionally they should assign
appropriate roles to different users
based on their responsibilities granting
access only to authorized individuals
further to ensure secure access Sam
Scoops should Implement a multiactor
authentication policy adding an extra
layer of protection these practices
guarantee that the Azure resources
remain accessible only to authorized
people following best practices around
network security also plays a vital role
in safeguarding data during Transit and
controlling the flow of traffic within
the Azure environment Sam Scoops can
achieve this by implementing virtual
networks network security groups or nsgs
and application gateways and by applying
nsgs to these v-ets they can have
granular control over inbound and
outbound traffic ensuring that only
authorized communication occurs
furthermore the implementation of
application gateways or a firewall
enables them to securely expose their
web applications to the internet
shielding them from potential threats
these measures significantly minimize
the attack surface and reinforce data
protection now let's move on to the next
best practice which is data security
protecting data both at rest and in
transit is of utmost importance to
achieve this Sam Scoops must utilize
various Azure services such as Azure
storage service encryption SSL and TLS
certificates and Azure key Vault for
storing and managing cryptographic Keys
let's explore why to ensure data
security at rest Sam Scoops can enable
encryption for their Azure storage
accounts to protect data in transit they
can Implement SSL and TLS certificates
to establish secure communication
channels preventing unauthorized access
during Transit
by leveraging Azure key Vault they can
securely store and manage their
cryptographic keys maintaining the
confidentiality and integrity of their
sensitive data lastly let's discuss the
fourth and final best practice
monitoring and threat detection
continuously monitoring the Azure
environment and promptly detecting
potential threats are vital aspects of
maintaining a secure environment Sam
Scoops can achieve this by leveraging
Microsoft Defender for cloud security
Center and Azure monitor
by utilizing Microsoft Defender for
cloud Sam Scoops can gain valuable
insights into their Azure environment
security posture it helps identify
vulnerabilities misconfigurations and
potential threats allowing them to take
proactive measures to mitigate risks
additionally Azure monitor provides
comprehensive monitoring capabilities
enabling them to monitor Logs set up
alerts and gain realtime visibility into
their environment security status these
best practices serve as an EXC excellent
guide for Sam Scoops to establish a
secure Azure environment by diligently
implementing these measures they can
effectively protect their data
applications and most importantly their
customers it is crucial for any
organization leveraging Azure to
prioritize security these best practices
lay the foundation for a robust security
framework that ensures the resilience
and protection of their digital assets
Microsoft Defender for cloud is a
central location for setting and
monitoring your organization's security
posture you can view which Solutions
adhere to security measures and which
systems need to be secured in this video
you will learn about the Microsoft
Defender for cloud interface and its
main features Microsoft Defender for
cloud is a solution for cloud security
posture management or cspm and Cloud
workload protection or
cwp it can help you find weak spots
across your Cloud configuration and it
helps strengthen the overall security
posture of your environment and protect
workloads across multicloud and hybrid
environments from evolving threats let's
examine the interface specifically the
main overview page an overview of
security posture Regulatory Compliance
workload protections and inventory can
all be seen on the main overview page
select the Microsoft Defender for cloud
security posture page option and you can
view the security posture of hybrid
Cloud workloads security alerts coverage
and information
Defender for cloud continually assesses
Cloud environments for security
vulnerabilities and
misconfigurations it then Aggregates the
findings into a secure score in this
case
69% the higher the score the lower the
identified risk level is navigate back
to the overview Page by selecting
Microsoft Defender for cloud overview in
the top leftand part of the screen then
select recommendations Defender for
cloud provides recommendations on how to
resolve security issues as
recommendations are implemented the
secure score improves organizations
often face a high volume of security
recommendations like the ones listed
here on the recommendation dashboard you
can select and expand a recommendation
like this one for internet facing
virtual machines to help make sense of
the recommendations the intelligent
Cloud security graph and attack path
analysis prioritize the most critical
risks the paths shown have a potentially
High business imp impact that attackers
can exploit this graph shows the attack
path nodes representing resources which
are found across the top in round
circles with all the potential attacks
listed in the graph underneath in this
example to prevent lateral movement an
internet facing VM needs an NSG to
protect the VM by selecting remediation
steps you can view recommendations to
kill the attack chain in this example
there are no unhealthy resources because
the Sam Scoops web machine is protected
you can view it by clicking on healthy
resources let's return to the
recommendations to select another one
this time for applying system updates by
selecting remediation steps and the
resource the task can be assigned to
another user to remediate Step One
select the virtual machine step two
select a sign
owner step three fill in the email
address or select the select owner box
to find the user in this example it's
Jamie
step four select a due date for the task
and select save it will take a few
seconds to take effect to view
recommendations associated with a
specific resource you need to navigate
back to the overview page select
inventory and then the virtual machine
Sam Scoops web a list of recommendations
for that VM now displays navigate back
to the previous menu by selecting
Microsoft Defender for cloud in the top
left hand side of the screen for risk
hunting and attack surface EXP exploring
select the cloud security Explorer from
the overview page Cloud security
Explorer equips security admins and
power users with query based tools and
starter templates for risk hunting and
resource exploring enabling users to
query the graph for their own findings
now select the overview option from the
menu on the left hand side of the screen
and then select Regulatory Compliance
this function helps you check compliance
across Industries thereby streamlining
the process of meeting Regulatory
Compliance requirements in an industry
as recommendations are acted upon it
reduces the environmental risk factors
so compliance and posture improve you
can select audit reports to view
different compliances for example you
can select PCI and download the payment
card industry data security standard or
PCI DSS report now select Microsoft
Defender for cloud overview to return to
the overview page from there select
environment settings here you can manage
the subscription settings for Defender
for cloud by selecting your subscription
you can see the defender plans that have
been enabled click on the three dot menu
select edit settings and then from the
list displayed you can switch plans on
or
off these are some of the features you
can access via the Microsoft Defender
for cloud interface Defender for cloud
closely monitors an Enterprise's
security posture enabling you to reduce
risks by prioritizing recommendations it
also enables you to search for risks
across the Azure subscription by
exploring the attack surface of your
resources this in turn allows you to
improve compliance and Implement
security governance just by using the
defender for cloud
interface server administrators
understand that it's efficient to
administer and maintain servers in an on
premise data center remotely with
Windows infrastructure as a service and
virtual machines being deployed in Azure
administrators must rely solely on
Remote Management to administer and
maintain cloud-based resources thus far
you have learned that you can use jit
access to protect ports during remote
access but they are still exposed for a
configured period of time so how can
administrators securely connect to
remote cloud-based VMS without exposing
the management interfaces of those VMS
to the internet the answer is azure
Bastian a fully managed platform as a
service or P service that allows you to
securely connect our your VMS remotely
by providing secure and seamless RDP and
SSH access to your VMS thus reducing the
attack surface in this video you will
learn about this service and how it
works to refresh your memory the attack
surface is the number of possible points
or attack vectors from which an
unauthorized user can access a system
and extract data the smaller the attack
surface the easier it is to protect
organizations must constantly monitor
their attack surface to identify and
block potential threats as quickly as
possible but it's difficult to
neutralize all attack vectors when
remote access is needed because by
necessity it relies on the internet
let's consider an example suppose an
organization's network administrator
needs to connect to the Azure VMS
remotely in the past this app ran on a
couple of Windows Server computers in
your head office data center whenever
you needed to administer the app you
connected using remote desktop protocol
RDP over TCP Port
3389 you also use secure shell or SSH
over Port 22 to administer the VMS
because the app was hosted on a
Computing resource in a private data
center you had no concerns about
malicious hackers gaining access over
the Internet however the app now runs on
VMS hosted in Azure which are exposed to
connect to the VMS you must now expose a
public IP address on each VM for your
RDP SSH connections and potential
protocol vulnerabilities make this type
of connection
undesirable as a solution you could use
a jumpbox server VM a jumpbox server is
an intermediary between your Management
console and the target VMS network
security policy permits access only to
the jumpbox from remote networks denying
direct access to the rest of the network
in which the jump server resides only by
accessing the jump server can you access
other devices on the network jump
servers are great but they have to be
managed and maintained thereby creating
a risk because if the machine isn't
updated and maintained it can be
attacked if you're using Azure a better
solution would be to use Azure Bastion
to protect access to these remote VMS
because it doesn't require management or
maintenance thus reducing Risk by
implementing Azure Bastion you can
manage the Azure VMS within a configured
Azure virtual Network by using either
RDP or SSH without needing to expose
those management ports to the public
internet let's examine the architecture
of a typical Azure Bastion deployment
and the endtoend connection process
Azure Bastion is deployed in a v-net
that contains another subnet with
several Azure VMS nsgs protect the
subnets in the virtual Network the NSG
protecting the VM subnet allows RDP and
SSH traffic from the Azure Bastion
subnet Azure Bastion supports
Communications only through TCP Port 443
from the Azure portal the typical
connection process in Azure Bastion is
as follows first an administrator
connects to the Azure portal using any
HTML 5 browser via a connection secured
with TLS second in the portal the
administrator selects the VM they want
to connect to third the portal connects
over a secured connection to Azure
Bastion through an NSG that's protecting
the virtual Network hosting the targeted
VM fourth Azure Bastion initiates a
connection to the Target VM and fifth
the RDP or SSH session opens in the
browser on the administrator console
azer Bastion streams the session
information through custom packages and
these packages are protected by TLS by
using Azure Bastion you bypass the need
to directly expose RDP SSH to the
internet on a public public IP instead
you connect Azure Bastion securely with
secure sockets layer or SSL and it
connects to the Target VMS using a
private IP Azure Bastion achieves the
key goal of enabling secure Remote
Management of hosted VMS thereby
reducing the attack surface as a managed
service you don't need to update Azure
Bastion or manually configure nsgs and
related settings it helps protect your
hosted VMS because it provides the
convenience of securely using both RDP
SSH to manage VMS remotely and avoids
exposing ports to the internet Azure
Bastion represents the best solution to
enabling secure Remote Management of
azure hosted
VMS in this video you will learn how to
deploy Azure Bastion from the Azure
portal on the Sam Scoops Azure tenant
and use Azure Bastion to protect the Sam
Scoops web VM you will also learn how
Bastion can be combined with jit access
for better protection let's begin from
the Azure portal homepage use the search
function to find virtual networks and
select the virtual networks option then
select the web server virtual Network on
the page for the virtual Network in the
left pane select Bastion to open the
Bastion page on the Bastion page select
configure manually this lets you
configure specific additional settings
when deploying Bastion to your v-net on
the create a Bastion page configure the
settings for the Bastion host the
project details are automatically
populated according to the selected
v-net and subscription you are working
with therefore the project details
already has Azure subscription one and
web server selected to configure the
Bastion instance details give it a name
in this case use Sam Scoops select a
region West Europe selected tier you'll
be using standard instance count is the
setting for host scaling SC in it's
configured in scale unit increments
leave it at the default of two configure
the virtual network settings by
selecting the web server v-net from the
drop-down menu next Azure Bastion needs
a subnet named Azure Bastian subnet to
configure the Azure Bastian subnet
select manage subnet configuration on
the ad subnet page create the Azure
basan subnet using the following values
leave the other values as default the
subnet name must be Azure Bastion subnet
the subnet address range for Sam Scoops
is
17216 2.0
sl24 the subnet must be at least sl26 or
larger to accommodate features available
with the standard skew select save at
the bottom of the page to save your
values navigate back to the Bastion
configuration Page by selecting create a
Bastion in the top left hand side of the
screen the public IP address section is
where you configure the public IP
address of the Bastion host resource on
which RDP SSH will be accessed over Port
443 the public IP address must be in the
same region as the Bastion resource
you're creating to create a new IP
address leave it as the default which is
create new you can leave the default
naming suggestion when you finish
specifying the settings select review
plus create this validates the values
once validated passes you can deploy
Bastion select create there will be a
message letting you know that your
deployment is in progress status will
display on this page as the resources
are created it takes about 10 minutes
for the Bastion resource to be created
and deployed let's now go over the steps
to connect Bastion with jit access in
the Azure portal select virtual machines
select the Sam Scoops web VM at the top
of the page select connect from the IP
address drop-down menu select private IP
address and select request access this
opens the jit ports for Bastion to
connect to at the top of the page select
Bastion to go to the Bastion page and
select use Bastion which will allow you
to connect to a Windows computer using
RDP and Port
3389 the authentication type is already
specified as password leave this setting
as is complete the required
Authentication values in this case for
the Sam Scoops VM the username is azed
admin with the password P sign dollar
sign dollar sign at sign1
234567 to open the VM session in a new
browser tab leave open in a new browser
tab selected select connect to connect
to the VM the connection to this virtual
machine via Bastion will open directly
in the Azure portal over HTML 5 using
Port 443 and the Bastion service in this
video you learned how to configure and
deploy Azure Bastion to connect a
virtual machine in this example jit
access was used with Azure basan for
Extra Protection of the management ports
in the modern business World policies
are like compasses keeping companies on
track with rules and guidelines to
ensure consistency and compliance many
of these rules and procedures are
enforced on companies by industry
standards or even require requirements
set by the state where companies are
based but many companies also need to
enforce their own rules to ensure secure
business operations and efficient
spending such company policies are
essential to control which resources are
used in the Azure environment and their
costs in this video you will learn how
Azure policy can be used to enforce
rules about the use of azure resources
imagine a scenario where Sam Scoops grow
so large that it is entirely m grated to
the Azure Cloud environment using many
Azure Services across the business but
imagine their revenue starts slowing
down due to factors out of their control
to reduce costs management could ask the
IT team to apply more granular control
over the resources deployed in the Azure
environment the it team's First Step
will be to deploy the Azure policy to
create assign and manage policy
definitions policy definitions impose
different rules and ction on resources
like VMS so that those resources comply
with corporate standards and service
level agreements or slas policies
focuses on both the properties of new
resources during deployment and those of
existing resources it assesses resources
checking those that do not conform to
policy definitions Sam scoop's it team
would generally use these policies to
address compliance control or scale
needs policy definitions enable them to
govern resource consistency Regulatory
Compliance security and costs in fact
with Azure policy they can specify
configuration requirements for any
resources that are created and take one
of these actions identify resources that
are out of compliance block the
resources from being created add the
required
configuration there are three main
pillars in the functionalities of azure
policy enforcement and compliance
applying policies at scale and
Remediation let's explore each concept
briefly the first pillar is about
realtime enforcement and compliance
assessment for example the IT team can
use Azure policy to control costs by
restricting the SKS of VMS they can also
limit the deployment of VMS to less
expensive regions and control which
Solutions are used from the Azure
Marketplace each policy also provides
compliance assessment of all existing
resources this data then Powers the
compliance overview aggregating results
across all applied policies this is an
example from the policy overview
dashboard within the Azure portal and it
indicates that this environment has a
compliance score of 100% the second
pillar of azure policy is applying
policies at scale by leveraging
management groups by assigning a policy
to a Management Group you can impact
hundreds of subscriptions and all their
resources through a single policy
agreement two concepts are important
here policy initiatives and exclusions
policy initiatives allows you to group
policies to view the aggregated
compliance result this example within
the policy definition dashboard
demonstrates that you can create an
initiative definition and add multiple
policies to that
definition at the initiative level
there's also a concept called exclusions
where one can exclude either the child
Management Group subscription Resource
Group or resources from the policy
assignment when assigning a policy you
can specify exclusions for the
subscription as seen in this example
policies will make changes to your
virtual environment so make sure to test
everything before creating them validate
your policy syntax the actions that will
be taken and the scope in use the scope
of a policy definition typically
includes the affected management groups
subscriptions and resource groups as
well as the inclusions exclusions and
exemptions the third pillar of your
policy is remediation a remediation
policy will automatically remediate
non-compliant resources so your
environment stays compliant note that
existing resources will only be flagged
as non-compliant but they won't
automatically be changed since changing
them can impact your environment for
these cases you can create a remediation
task to make these resources compliant
then you can use the Azure policiy
compliance dashboard to check the
results of your policy assignments in
this example the subscription is only
50% compliant so more work is needed to
meet the compliance goals in this video
you learned that Azure policy can help
companies control costs compliance
security and management across Azure Sam
scoop's it team can reduce Cloud
infrastructure costs by creating
compliance rules and implementing them
on a large scale across the company
through management groups fortunately
this will not automatically affect
existing resources thereby minimizing
the impact on their Cloud environment
Azure policy will only flag
non-compliant existing resources and not
automatically change them the IT team
can create separate remediation tasks to
make these existing resources compliant
there is still a lot to learn about how
Azure policy helps companies enforce
policies and standards and you will
explore all its features during the rest
of this
lesson as Sam Scoops will be using Azure
services and virtual machines more often
it makes sense to implement some rules
that can help manage costs this can be
done by creating a new custom policy
that prevents the creation of more
expensive virtual machines from the G
Series G Series VMS are more costly
because they have more memory and use
Solid State Storage these resources are
not needed for Sam scoop's current
business applications so by creating
this policy a request from any user in
the organization to create a G Series VM
will be denied in this video you will
learn how to use Azure policy to create
and Implement a custom definition across
a business from the Azure portal
homepage search and select policy from
the policy page select definitions under
authoring on the left side of the Azure
policy page then select the plus policy
definition button at the top of the page
which will open the policy definition
page here you will create the new policy
start by entering the following
information in the definition location
box add the subscription for which the
policy definition is intended search for
the required subscription by clicking
the ellipses next to the text box in
this example it's subscription one add
the name of the policy definition in
this case require VM SKS not in the G
Series next add the description of what
the policy definition is intended for in
this example this policy definition
enforces that all virtual machines
created in this scope have SKS other
than the G Series to reduce
cost for the category you can create a
new category or choose from existing
options in this example the existing
category compute will be used the policy
rule uses Json code and is the essence
of the policy rule in this example the
code was created earlier and pasted into
the policy rule box you don't need to
understand Json code at this point it's
enough to know that this code uses an if
then statement that says if the type of
resource is a virtual machine of the
skew standard G then the effect is deny
another option is to import sample
policies from the GitHub website which
holds several policy samples once
complete select save now that the policy
is created you have to assign it to the
intended subscription or a particular
Resource Group in that subscription you
can select your option from the ellipses
next to the scope text box in this
example let's assign it to the entire
subscription subscription one if you
assign a policy to an entire
subscription or a Management Group you
can also add exclusions to the policy
using the ellipses under exclusions the
assignment can then be given a name and
a description of what the assignment is
for in this example denying the creation
of the G Series virtual machine on the
whole Sam scoop subscription the policy
can be enabled or disabled and the name
of the user who assigned the policy
should be specified in the provided box
under assigned by In This example
enabled by Ashton to assign the policy
select review and create review the
policy and then select create the policy
will now be assigned to the subscription
taking 10 to 15 minutes to take effect
to view the policy assignment select
policy from the top and then select
assignments from the menu at the left
then select refresh after 15 minutes you
will see your newly created and assigned
custom policy in this video you learned
how to create a custom policy custom
policies are useful to help a business
enforce its governance requirements
across subscriptions and resource groups
it helps keep an organization's Azure
implementation compliant by implementing
a custom policy Sam Scoops can better
control its Cloud costs as they expand
their usage of
azure so far you've learned how Azure
policies can be used to govern resource
creation across subscriptions but you
might have realized that it will take a
lot of effort to create and maintain
policies for all the processes and
resource types of a business using Azure
how can you ensure cons consistency
limit human error and Empower teams by
only allowing secure and regulated
deployment of azure resources that's
where Azure blueprints come in and in
this video you will learn how it helps
streamline and scale a company's
governance in a consistent and compliant
way consider how an architect sketches a
Project's design parameters using a
blueprint in the same way Azure
blueprints enables a business to define
a repeatable set of azure resources that
implements an ad ads to the company's
standards patterns and requirements
let's revisit the scenario where Sam
Scoops grows into a large scale
Corporation fully migrated to Azure when
dealing with payment data they must
comply with the payment card industry
data security standards or PCI DSS can
you imagine how complex it will become
to keep thousands of azure resources PCI
DSS compliant within a large corporation
like this by using Azure blueprints the
various development teams across the
company can build new environments
rapidly with the assurance that they're
staying within PCI DSS requirements
blueprints use buil-in components like
networking to speed up development and
delivery you can think about Azure
blueprints as a package that you can use
to deploy and deliver governance
blueprints are composed of the following
Azure artifacts rooll assignments policy
assignments resource groups and Azure
resource manager templates or arm arm
templates are JavaScript object notation
or Json files that Define the
infrastructure and configuration for
your deployment more information on arm
can be found in the additional resources
these artifacts are embedded into the
blueprint or package which can then be
composed versioned and assigned to a
Management Group containing multiple
subscriptions or it can be assigned
directly to a single subscription once
assigned the package will start the
deployment of roles policies templates
or resource groups against the
management group or the chosen
subscription a significant advantage of
using Azure blueprints is that it offers
several built-in blueprints for various
regulations Sam Scoops can use a
pre-built blueprint for PCI DSS
compliance and apply it to its
Management Group can you imagine how
much time this will save them and what's
more Microsoft keeps adding blueprints
to Azure across many different
Industries and countries various types
of organizations across the world use
these pre built blueprints to speed up
the deployment of compliant environments
in conclusion by using Azure blueprints
organizations can easily create
resources but also keep compliant at the
same time and instead of developing
their own rules and standards companies
can save development Time by using
Microsoft's pre-built blueprints by
applying pre-built blueprints to their
Management Group Sam Scoops can be
assured that all resources that
developers create will align with the
selected compliance rules previously you
learned that continuous monitoring of an
on premise Network helps to track and
mitigate any potential threats to a
network the more information you can
gather from different sources the better
this is no different when a network is
in the cloud security information and
event management or SIM for short is a
solution that helps organizations detect
analyze and respond to security threats
before they harm business operations in
this video you will learn about Sim and
how it is used to diagnose issues Sim
combines both security information
management and security event management
into one Security Management System Sim
technology collects event log data from
a range of sources identifies activity
that deviates from the norm with
real-time analysis and takes appropriate
action it gives organizations insight
into activity within their Network so
they can meet compliance requirements
and respond swiftly to potential cyber
attacks Sim tools collect Aggregate and
analyze volumes of data from an
organization's applications devices
servers and users in real time so
security teams can detect and block
attacks the tools use predetermined
rules to help security teams Define
threats and generate alerts Sim is part
of Microsoft Sentinel and it can gather
data across the whole Microsoft Azure
Cloud using all the different possible
sources including the Microsoft Defender
offerings Sim systems can mitigate cyber
risks with a range of use cases such as
detecting suspicious user activity
monitoring user Behavior limiting access
attempts and generating compliance
reports these systems vary in their
capabilities but generally offer these
core functions first is log management
Sim systems gather vast amounts of data
in one place organize it and then
determine if it shows signs of a threat
attack or breach
second is event correlation the data is
sorted to identify relationships and
patterns to quickly detect and respond
to potential threats and third is
incident monitoring and response Sim
technology monitors security incidents
across an organization's Network and
provides alerts and audits of all
activity related to an incident with the
introduction of AI and machine learning
Sim tools are also becoming more
powerful with so many potential incoming
risks
it's hard for security teams to separate
the legitimate risks and attacks could
slip through
unnoticed AI can be used to sift through
millions of data points and algorithms
to help produce a condensed list of
threats and vulnerabilities to the cyber
security worker thereby reducing
workload Sim tools offer many benefits
that can help strengthen an
organization's overall security posture
these benefits include a central view of
potential threats real-time threat
identification and response and advanced
threat intelligence as well as
Regulatory Compliance auditing and
Reporting and greater transparency
monitoring users applications and
devices just like an on premise Network
sim collects data and logs from as many
sources as possible to detect threats
organizations of all sizes use sim
solutions to mitigate cyber security
risks and meet Regulatory Compliance
standards it's an important part of an
organization's cyber security ecosystem
when collecting data across the cloud
Sim gives security teams a central place
to collect Aggregate and analyze volumes
of data across an Enterprise effectively
streamlining security workflows it also
delivers operational capabilities such
as compliance reporting Incident
Management and dashboards that
prioritize threat
activity previously you learned about
Sim and that it's used to monitor Cloud
Solutions and on on premise network
devices the monitoring is performed by
collecting data from many different
sources across the on premise networks
and the cloud as you now know Microsoft
Sentinel is Microsoft Sim offering and
in this video you will learn about
Sentinel and how it is deployed
Microsoft Sentinel is a cloud native Sim
and sour system that a security
operations team can use to collect data
from virtually any source and get
security insights across the Enterprise
detect and investigate threats quickly
by using built-in machine learning and
Microsoft threat intelligence and
automate threat responses by using
playbooks and by integrating Azure logic
apps unlike with traditional Sim
Solutions you don't need to install any
servers either on premise or in the
cloud to run Microsoft Sentinel rather
Microsoft Sentinel is a service that you
deploy in Azure you can get up and
running with Sentinel in just a few
minutes in the Azure portal Sentinel is
tightly integrated with other cloud
services not only can you quickly ingest
logs but you can also use other Cloud
tools like authorization and Automation
in their native environments Microsoft
Sentinel enables endtoend security
operations including collection
detection investigation and response to
store the data for Microsoft Sentinel a
log analytics workspace is needed it's a
unique environment for log data from
Azure Monitor and other azure services
such as Microsoft Sentinel and Microsoft
Defender for cloud each workspace has
its own data repository and
configuration but might combine data
from multiple Services more information
can be found in additional resources now
let's go through the steps needed to
deploy Microsoft Sentinel to deploy
Microsoft Sentinel first sign into the
Azure
portal next search for and select
Microsoft Sentinel once on the Microsoft
Sentinel page page select create
Microsoft Sentinel from the bottom
middle of the dashboard Microsoft
Sentinel needs a workspace for data
collection and storage this is a log
analytics workspace if a workspace
already exists this can be selected but
in this example one will need to be
created to do this select create a new
workspace on the create log analytics
workspace page select the resource Group
where the workspace will reside in this
example the RG web server give the
instance a name in this example scoop
Sentinel and select a region that the
data will reside in in this example you
shall use the same region as the
selected Resource Group East us next
select review plus create and now select
create once the workspace has been
created an add button will appear at the
bottom of the page select add to add
Microsoft Sentinel to the Scoops
Sentinel workspace
once added the Microsoft Sentinel free
trial is activated for 31 days before
billing for the service commences select
okay Microsoft Sentinel has now been
deployed The Next Step will be to add
data sources which you will learn more
about in the rest of this lesson in this
video you learned more about Microsoft
Sentinel a service that is set up from
within the Azure portal when deploying
it a workspace has to be created where
the collected data can res
and this also determines the region for
that data to be stored in once the
workspace has been created Microsoft
Sentinel can be added and then you're
ready to add data sources previously in
this lesson you learned about Microsoft
Sentinel and how it is deployed Sentinel
delivers intelligent security analytics
and threat intelligence across the
Enterprise but it can only do this when
provided with data this data is provided
by a number of different sources and in
this video you will not just learn about
the sources but also the supported data
formats let's consider a scenario where
Sam Scoops business operations have
expanded
significantly its security operations or
sack Ops team may be overwhelmed by a
high volume of alerts which would mean
that they may spend far too much time on
tasks like infrastructure setup and
maintenance as a result many legitimate
threats may go unnoticed security
analysts like this team face the huge
huge task of triage by assessing alerts
and determining how urgent they are they
not only have to sift through a sea of
alerts but also manually correlate
alerts from different products or using
a traditional correlation engine but
there's an easier way to handle this
task if they use Microsoft Sentinel it
will do triage for them and what's more
Sentinel offers nearly Limitless Cloud
scale so it can quickly address security
concerns the first step for the team
would be to integrate Sentinel across
their organization to onboard Microsoft
Sentinel the security team first need to
connect to security sources these data
sources which can be Hardware devices or
virtual machines can be connected using
different data types and formats the
first is an inbuilt data connector like
the ones in this screenshot Microsoft
Sentinel comes with a number of inbuilt
connectors for Microsoft Solutions
providing realtime integration for
Services these Services include
Microsoft threat protection Microsoft
365 sources Azure ad Azure ATP and
Microsoft Cloud app security and more
using the inbuilt connectors will
increase deployment speed but the store
may have lots of appliances like on
premise firewalls that don't have
built-in connectors yet to remedy this
the security team can use CIS log and
common event format or CF or rest AP API
to connect data sources to Microsoft
Sentinel CIS log is an event logging
protocol common to Linux CF is an
industry standard format on top of CIS
log messages used by many security
vendors to allow event interoperability
among different platforms and rest API
is an application programming interface
that two computer systems use to
exchange information securely over the
Internet an agent is needed to translate
the data before it s to Microsoft
Sentinel in order to connect the data
sources that can perform realtime log
streaming using the CIS log protocol an
agent is a computer program that
performs various actions continuously
and autonomously in this case
translation depending on the appliance
type the agent is installed either
directly on the appliance or on a
dedicated Linux server if there's no
vendor provided connector you can use
the generic CF or CIS log connector
applications will send messages that may
be stored on the local machine or
delivered to a CIS log collector to
connect the data sources the Microsoft
Sentinel agent which is based on the log
analytics agent converts CIS log format
logs into a format that can be ingested
by log analytics the agent must be
deployed on a VM to support the
communication between the appliance and
Sentinel you can deploy the agent
automatically or manually automatic
deployment is only available if your
dedicated machine is a new VM you
created in Azure here a VM that has been
installed in Azure is running the log
analytics agent which is receiving the
CIS log data from on premise sources
before passing it on to Microsoft
Sentinel some data sources are connected
using apis typically most security
Technologies provide a set of apis
through which event logs can be
retrieved the apis connect to Microsoft
Sentinel and gather specific data types
and send them to Azure log analytics
using CIS log and apis work great when
you are dealing with appliances that
don't have inbuilt connectors but both
options involve extra work like
installing a virtual machine with an
agent for translation or building your
own connector via rest API where
possible using the built-in connectors
for Microsoft products is much easier
because it's just a matter of switching
them on there are also built-in
connectors to the broader security
ecosystem system for non-microsoft
Solutions these are known as vendor
connectors and they can reduce setup
time these connectors primarily use the
CF and syis log connector as their
foundation in this video you learned
that once Microsoft Sentinel has been
deployed in an environment the next step
is to connect it to data sources many
Microsoft products have built-in
connectors and connecting to these
sources is simple for other vendors
without inbuilt connectors and on
premise equipment CIS log or apis can be
used to connect data sources to
Microsoft Sentinel additionally some
third-party vendors have also created
their own connectors to help make a
security analyst deployment of Microsoft
Sentinel an easier task in conclusion
data connectors serve as critical links
that enable seamless integration with a
wide array of data sources previously
you learned about Microsoft Sentinel Sim
capabilities and how it collects detects
and investigates threats and then
responds to them Sentinel supports
security teams by centralizing alerts
but teams can still easily get
overwhelmed by the volume of security
alerts and incidents luckily Sentinel
has other capabilities that can help
security teams deal with this in this
video you will learn about Sentinel
security orchestration Automation and
response or sore capabilities let's
imagine Sam Scoops business operations
have grown so large that they need to
deploy Microsoft Sentinel to improve
their security posture Sentinel is great
at identifying security alerts and
incidents that had previously gone
unnoticed but a high volume of alerts
and incidents may leave the available
Personnel feeling overwhelmed which
means many of these alerts are ignored
this leaves the business vulnerable to
attack let's investigate how they can
address this vulnerability Microsoft
Sentinel in addition to being security
information and event management or Sim
system is also a platform for security
orchestration Automation and response or
SAR the main goal of SAR is to collect
threat related data and automate threat
responses by doing so it frees up the
precious time of the security team
automation takes a few different forms
in Microsoft Sentinel for example there
are automation rules that centrally
manage the automation of incident
handling and response and Playbook books
that run predetermined sequences of
actions to provide powerful and flexible
Advanced automation to your threat
response tasks let's first examine rules
more closely besides letting you assign
playbooks to incidents and alerts
automation rules also allow you to
automate responses from multiple
analytic rules at once automatically
tagging assigning or closing incidents
Sam Scoops can use this automation to
assign specific incidents to security
analysts in this way incidents are
captured instead of being missed
automation rules are made up of and or
or statements looking to match specific
alerts or incidents in this example if
Microsoft Sentinel detects a multi-stage
attack involving the IP address of
17216 1.1 the rule automatically assigns
an owner to the incident automation
rules also allow you to apply
automations when an incident is created
and updated this capability further
streamlines automation use in Microsoft
Sentinel and enables retail businesses
to simplify complex workflows for
incident orchestration processes now
let's move on to Playbooks A playbook is
a collection of response and Remediation
actions and logic that can be run from
Microsoft Sentinel as a routine A
playbook can help automate and
orchestrate your threat response it can
integrate with other systems both
internal and external and when triggered
by an analytics or automation rule it
can be configured to run automatically
in response to specific alerts or
incidents A playbook can also be run
manually and On Demand responding to
incident page alerts this would enable
Sam Scoops to take off some of the
pressure on their security team by
automatically dealing with many of the
alerts and incidents for example the
business may receive a large volume of
alerts with recurring patterns which
can't be processed or investigated
because it's so timec consuming and
intensive using realtime automation the
security team can significantly reduce
their workload by fully automating the
routine responses to recurring types of
alerts here is an example where based on
the user input The Playbook can change
the status of the alert the control
action intercepts the user input and if
the expression is evaluated to be true
statement The Playbook changes the sty
status of the alert in case the control
action evaluates the expression to be
false the Playbook can run other
activities such as sending an email in
conclusion Microsoft Sentinel Sim is
great at collecting data investigating
threats and generating alerts but in
larger organizations the volume of
alerts and incidents can be overwhelming
even though Microsoft Sentinel gives you
one place to access all of this
information responding to every alerted
incident is timec consuming sore can
help to automate some of these responses
by using rule Automation and playbooks
rule automation can help assign close or
even send alerts and incidents to
playbooks for further response and
Remediation this automation frees up a
lot of a security team's valuable time
it's the end of the second week of the
course and time to review what you've
learned thus far to make sure you're
ready to take the quiz let's start with
lesson one one in this lesson you
learned that Security Management of a
company's Cloud infrastructure is vital
because it prevents unauthorized access
and protects against cyber threats Azure
has several services that help
businesses to implement defensive
measures against cyber threats one such
service is Microsoft Defender for cloud
which offers continuous monitoring and
threat detection analysis of data and
actionable insights to prevent potential
attacks you explored how Microsoft
Defender for cloud can benefit
businesses it offers a range of
capabilities including devc Ops Cloud
security posture management or cspm and
Cloud workload protection platform or
cwpp these capabilities collectively
contribute to safeguarding Applications
data and infrastructure except for
specific services offered by Microsoft
there are also best practices that a
business like Sam Scoops can follow to
ensure the security of their Cloud
infrastructure for example protecting
data both at rest and in transit is
critical to do so Sam Scoops can enable
encryption for their Azure storage
accounts Implement SSL and TLS
certificates and leverage Azure key
Vault to securely store and manage
cryptographic Keys Sam Scoops devops
teams can use Azure devops and Azure
policy to build secure applications and
infrastructure Azure devops can also
help the business Auto at the deployment
of security updates and patches reducing
the risk of security vulnerabilities
being exploited in lesson two you
explored virtual Security Solutions
primarily how Azure Bastion can reduce
the attack surface But first you learned
how to use the Microsoft for Defender
Cloud interface and how the service can
help strengthen the security posture of
a cloud environment then you moved on to
the specifics of how Azure Bastion Works
Bastion is a fully managed platform as a
service or path service that allows you
to connect to Azure VMS remotely by
providing secure and seamless RDP and
SSH access to your VMS thus reducing the
attack surface very importantly in this
lesson's practical exercise you learned
how to deploy Azure Bastion to Shield
virtual machines moving on to lesson
three you learned about Azure standards
and policies and how Azure policy can
ensure compliance with industry rules
and guidelines by creating a assigning
and managing policy definitions policy
definitions impose different rules and
actions on resources like VMS so that
those resources comply with corporate
standards and service level agreements
or slas policies focuses on both the
properties of new resources during
deployment and those of existing
resources here you also learned about
the three pillars of azure policy which
are enforcement and compliance applying
policies at scale and Remediation an
initiative definition is a set of policy
definitions that help track the state of
resource compliance to meet the
company's overall goal initiative
definitions can be created or you can
use the built-in definitions in Azure
after creating initiative definitions
you must assign policies to affected
resources and then evaluate the state of
compliance for scoped resources you also
learned how Azure management groups
enable you to apply one policy to an
entire hierarchy of subscriptions Azure
policy has over over 70 categories of
built-in policies to support
organizations in the governance of their
Azure resources on a more practical note
you learned how to use Azure policy to
create and Implement a custom definition
across a business to help manage costs
specifically the demonstration showed
how to create a new custom policy for
Sam Scoops that prevents the creation of
more expensive virtual machines from the
G Series in this part of the course you
learned about Azure blueprints and how
the service can help streamline and
scale a company's governance in a
consistent and compliant way blueprints
is like a package you can use to deploy
and deliver governance and they are
composed of azure artifacts which
include role assignments policy
assignments resource groups and Azure
resource manager templates or arm these
artifacts are embedded into the
blueprint or package which can then be
composed versioned and assigned to a
Management Group containing multiple
subscriptions or it can be assigned
directly to a single subscription last
was Lesson Four which was about Sim and
sore security information and event
management or SIM for short is a
solution that helps organizations detect
analyze and respond to security threats
before they harm business
operations next you learned about
Microsoft Sentinel security
orchestration Automation and response or
SAR capabilities the main goal of SAR is
to collect threat related data and
automate
responses by doing so it frees up the
precious time of security teams
automation takes a few different forms
in Microsoft Sentinel for example there
are automation rules that centrally
manage the automation of incident
handling and response and playbooks that
run predetermined sequences of actions
to provide powerful and flexible
Advanced automation to your threat
response tasks rule automation can help
assign close or even send alerts and
incidents to Playbooks for further
response and Remediation so now you know
that Microsoft Sentinel is a cloud
native Sim and Source system that a
security operations team can use to get
security insights across the Enterprise
by collecting data from virtually any
source that is stored using log
analytics detect and investigate threats
quickly by using buil-in machine
learning and Microsoft threat
intelligence and automate threat
responses by using playbooks and by
integrating azure apps you also learned
about Sentinel data connectors Microsoft
Sentinel delivers intelligent security
analytics and threat intelligence across
the Enterprise but it can only do this
when provided with data via connectors
Sentinel comes with a number of in-built
connectors for Microsoft Solutions
providing realtime integration for
services ultimately combining Sim and
sore make sense because they are
complimentary Sim collects data and
gathers evidence while sore provides
Automation and
intelligence and that wraps up the
summary remember if you don't feel
confident about a specific topic you can
still review the relevant items before
taking the quiz take your time to
prepare and all the best for the quiz
security threat prevention is not
limited to just network security it also
covers applications email collaborations
endpoints crosss Solutions identity and
more Security Professionals need a way
to analyze the threat signals from each
of these domains holistically to
determine the full scope and impact of
cyber threats and Microsoft 365 Defender
provides the ultimate solution to this
need previously you've learned about
Microsoft Defender for cloud but many
different Defender Services can be used
together to form an integrated security
solution over the next few minutes
you'll learn about the integrated
Defender services and how they operate
to determine how a threat entered a
cloud environment what domains it
affected and how it's currently
impacting an organization to understand
what a GameChanger Microsoft Defender
can be for a security team you need to
grasp the challenges that they face
cyber attackers do not operate in
isolated domains of applications
endpoints identities or data they
establish a foothold and move laterally
across these domains defending the
entire landscape can be challenging
first the number of threat signals from
all domains can be enormous and lead to
alert fatigue normalizing and analyzing
alerts promptly is a near impossible
task for security teams second when
security teams view signals across
domains in isolation they can't see
lateral movement and persistence much
less overall context and when different
teams work in silos using domain-based
Solutions it becomes challenging to put
all the pieces of an attack together
which brings up the last point when
perimeter protection is domain based so
too is the response if you only
understand a threat within the
boundaries of a single domain you might
not discover understand or remediate so
to understand a threat spread over
several domains Microsoft 365 Defender
offers integrated cross-domain threat
detection and response Solutions it
provides coordinated automatic defense
across all service domains to block
threats before they become attacks to
reduce signal fatigue it automatically
normalizes raw signal data from those
domains analyzes that data and
correlates it into incidents an incident
in Microsoft 365 Defender is a
collection of correlated alerts and
Associated data that make up the story
of an attack and it provides context for
all the signals so security teams can
understand the larger impact of the
attack all this happens in One dashboard
that requires no specific expertise or
customization the Microsoft 365 Defender
Suite protects user identities with
Microsoft Defender for identity and
Azure ad identity protection endpoints
with Microsoft Defender for endpoint or
mde applications with Microsoft Defender
for cloud apps also referred to as MDC
and email and collaboration with
Microsoft Defender for Office 365 or mdo
let's explore these different Microsoft
365 Defender Services in more detail
starting with Microsoft Defender for
identity or MDI which is a cloud-based
security solution MDI uses your on
premises active directory data called
signals to identify detect and
investigate Advanced threats compromised
identities and malicious Insider actions
directed at your
organization Microsoft Defender for
identity provides Security Professionals
who manage hybrid environments the
functionality to Monitor and profile
user behavior and activities protect
user identities and reduce the attack
surface identify and investigate
suspicious activities and advanced
attacks across the Cyber attack kill
chain and lastly it provides clear
incident information on a simple time
timeline for fast
triage next Microsoft Defender for
endpoint or mde is a platform designed
to help Enterprise networks protect
endpoints it does so by preventing
detecting investigating and responding
to Advanced threats mde embeds
technology into current Windows
operating systems and Microsoft cloud
services this technology includes
endpoint behavioral sensors that collect
and process signals from various sources
these include operating systems and
Cloud security analytics that turn
signals into insights detections and
recommendations and threat intelligence
with this data mde identifies attacker
tools and techniques and it also
generates alerts Defender vulnerability
management is also built into mde which
delivers asset visibility intelligent
assessments and built-in remediation
tools for Windows Mac OS Linux Android
iOS and network devices let's move on to
Microsoft Defender for cloud apps or MDC
MDC is a comprehensive cross solution
that operates as an intermediary between
a cloud user and the cloud provider MDC
provides Rich visibility to cloud
services control over data travel and
sophisticated analytics to identify and
combat cyber threats across all
Microsoft and third-party cloud services
this service provides app governance by
discovering all Cloud apps being used in
the organization it can detect Shadow it
which are installed apps that were not
cleared by the IT department it also
controls and protects data in all
approved apps used throughout an
organization and finally let's discuss
data loss prevention or DLP which is a
security feature that protects sensitive
data and forms a key part of various
Microsoft 365 Defender Services it
prevents sensitive data from being
accidentally or intentionally shared
with unauthorized users for example DLP
can prevent someone from sharing
personal information or intellectual
property it can also stop someone from
accidentally emailing a file attachment
to an unauthorized
recipient in this video you learned
about different Microsoft 365 Defenders
services and how they can protect
organizations holistically each of these
different Services can protect identity
Office 365 endpoints and Cloud apps many
of them also include additional features
like app governance with Cloud apps
what's more is that mde also has
built-in vulnerability management this
is all brought together and accessible
through the Microsoft 365 Defender
portal Microsoft 365 defend vender
protects organizations against
sophisticated cyber attacks it
coordinates detection prevention
investigation and response to threats
across endpoints identities email and
applications Microsoft 365 Defender is a
unified pre- and post breach Enterprise
defense Suite in this video you will
take a practical walkthrough of the
defender 365 portal you will discover
how it brings together many any services
and features to correlate all related
alerts across products into a single
incident Microsoft 365 Defender can stop
persistence attacks before they happen
across all domains it automatically
makes an enormous amount of normalized
threat data available without the
painful and timeconsuming task of
analyzing it and to give security teams
leverage over those threats before they
become attacks Microsoft 365 Defender
removes the fusion and clutter of siloed
security portals it offers one solution
to bring threat data together for rapid
and complete responses for example
Microsoft 365 Defender automatically
correlates domain level signal data into
incidents to give security teams a full
attack timeline plus it provides a
complete view of the affected assets
including the infected identities end
points and mailboxes it also recommends
how to triage the damage quickly
additionally it automatically uncovers
connections between alerts across
security domains enabling response
across the entire attack and remediating
all the damage including
persistence this self-healing process
handles both mundane and complex
remediations last Automation and
artificial intelligence free security
teams to focus on hunting for
sophisticated attacks using the wealth
of data that Microsoft 365 Defender
provides they can then use their
organizational expertise and knowledge
of internal behaviors to investigate and
uncover the most sophisticated breaches
next let's explore how the portal
provides a unified experience for
protection investigation and response
beginning with incidents they're the
starting point for your investigations
which almost always include opening
alert entity and investigation Pages no
alert correlation into incidents isn't
new what is new is that you can now
wholly investigate an incident including
alerts from all the included services
without ever leaving the Microsoft 365
Defender portal nor do you leave the
portal when you open alerts from
included Services instead Microsoft 365
Defender provides a unified alert page
to explore and investigate all of them
alerts now have the same look and feel
and provide a consistent experience
across the board likewise go down a
level by opening a device email or user
and you'll notice the new entity Pages
similar to how incidents correlate
alerts entity Pages correlate signals
for specific entity from the various
included Services all in one View and
without ever leaving the Microsoft 365
Defender portal so they don't interrupt
the flow of your
investigation next is the unified
investigation page it introduces a
shared language for all the included
services
investigations previously each had its
own investigation page and this new
unified page offers a consistent
experience the last big area is threat
analytics the builtin threat
intelligence solution that helps
security teams face emerging threats
efficiently it provides reports that
help you use the expertise of the
Microsoft threat intelligence team with
that knowledge you can identify and
protect yourself from emerging threats
all in one portal threat analytics
includes endpoint data from Microsoft
Defender for endpoint and email data
from Microsoft Defender for Office
365 by integrating Microsoft Defender
for endpoint Defender for identity
Defender for Office 365 and Defender for
cloud apps into Microsoft 365 Defender
the broad scope of available data lets a
security team see the complete story of
an attack from start to finish allowing
them to investigate and remediate
incidents more quickly previously you
learned how Microsoft 365 Defender
brings several threat Protection
Services together providing a dashboard
to view all incidents and alerts
Microsoft 365 Defender has many features
and in this video you will focus on one
of these features the incidence and
alerts dashboard the incidence que is a
central location to prioritize cross
domain attacks and alerts it lists each
incident by severity and includes the
context and data security teams need for
a comprehensive response to start your
investigation select an incident the
summary tab describes the incident's
scope and context to help you quickly
understand the threat for example it
shows the total number of alerts and how
many remain active to help you
understand the scope of the attack the
summary tab shows the number of affected
assets including devices users and
mailboxes plus a list of the top
impacted entities ranked by risk level
or priority below is a summary of the
evidence that Microsoft 365 Defender
investigated and its remediation status
and to the right is some helpful
metadata like tags data sensitivity and
groups on this one tab you gain valuable
Insight before you even begin digging
into the others next the alerts tab
lists alerts linked to this incident
including for each the severity status
and reason it was linked many of the
alerts in this incident were
automatically investigated and resolved
by Automation and artificial
intelligence which means less work for
the analyst the devices tab lists each
impacted device including its risk level
and tags the detail side pane offers
additional info and you can drill deeper
into the device details by selecting it
on the users tab you see a list of users
associated with this incident notice the
investigation priority it's based on
user and entity Behavior analytics and
can help guide your investigation the
higher the number the closer you want to
look at that user related to that are
the mailboxes involved in the incident
selecting a mailbox will open it in
threat Explorer so that you can
investigate further the investigations
tab lists the statuses of automated
investigations that Microsoft 365
Defender performed for each triggering
alert select an alert to see more
details including the remediation action
the last tab is evidence initially this
displays a summary of the evidence that
Microsoft 365 Defender investigated
including files emails users and more
for each type you see the number of
remediated malicious suspicious and
unremediated entities you can drill down
into each type to see a complete list
for example you can select files then
select a specific file to see its detail
details in the side Paine in this case
Microsoft 365 Defender automatically
remediated the file Microsoft 365
Defender automatically investigates and
remediates affected assets once you've
checked over the incident and are
satisfied that it's handled Market
resolved to do that select manage
incident then toggle the resolve
incident switch classify the incident as
true or false alert and choose a
determination after saving the incident
Microsoft 36 5 Defender marks any
outstanding alerts as
resolved next let's explore how
Microsoft 365 Defender combines alerts
from various detection sources into a
single queue to help improve signal
quality threats are listed and their
sources are listed in the detection
Source column including Microsoft
Defender for endpoint Microsoft Defender
for identity and more the unified portal
lists the alerts from all these sources
in one place providing a single single
dashboard for SEC Ops to manage alerts
across our Microsoft 365 security
products helping you to understand the
big picture select an alert to see more
information about it in the detail side
pane like the Alert state details and
policy that triggered it plus
information on the incident to which
it's linked any automated investigation
details and impacted entities likewise
Microsoft 365 Defender offers a unified
alert page it's a common layout and
shared language for alerts from
Microsoft Defender for Office 365 and
other detection sources at the top of
the page asset cards list the mailboxes
devices and users impacted by the alert
below the asset cards the alert story
helps you understand what triggered the
alert if you select any messages or
activities in the alert Story the detail
side pane updates to provide contextual
information for the selected item select
open email page to drill down even
further into the new email entity page
which can help you investigate emails
quicker and with richly detailed
information for example the analysis tab
provides enhanced data about an email
including authentication detection
details and overrides plus it includes
an email and header preview then there's
the attachments Tab and the URL tab next
to it they offer Rich detonation details
like the files IP addresses and URLs
observed for a threat plus screenshots
application and URL behaviors and more
of course alerts for other sources like
Microsoft Defender for endpoint and
Microsoft Defender for identity are here
too not only are they all in this one
place but they also have a similar user
experience again once you're done with
the alert classify it as a true or false
alert and add a
determination Microsoft Defender will
use that signal to help tune future
alerts
in this video you learned that Microsoft
365 Defender automatically Aggregates
malicious and suspicious events from
different device user and mailbox
entities in the network and you now know
that grouping related alerts into an
incident gives security teams a
comprehensive view of an
attack
earlier you learned that you can manage
roles for Microsoft Defender for Office
365 or mdo globally using azure ad roles
but if you need more control over
specific user roles then you can use the
default email and collaboration roles in
Microsoft 365 Defender you can use these
role groups for the most common tasks
and functions sometimes however these
default roles do not suit the permission
level of certain users in this case you
can create custom roles in this video
you will explore why custom roles are so
useful and how to implement them within
mdo Sam Scoops is on the way to becoming
a large corporation they will need a big
security team to support all the
different aspects of Microsoft products
and services used by the company now
imagine that you are the manager of
their security team and you need to
refine the data that different security
team members can access across different
services including Microsoft Office 365
for instance the Microsoft 365 Defender
administrator should be able to edit
roles but the endpoint security analyst
should only be able to view and
remediate endpoints how can you do it if
you use Azure active directory roles it
will grant all users access to many
different services so you need a way to
specify different roles and permissions
and that's why the roles in mdo are the
perfect solution let's explore how you
can go about this task using the default
rooll groups of mdo permissions in the
Microsoft 365 Defender portal first
someone who manages roles must either
have a global administrator role in
Azure ad or an organization management
role for mdo permissions specifically
role Management in Defender for Office
365 allows users to view create and
modify mdo role groups by default that
role is assigned only to the
organization Management Group with these
permissions you can access all the
different default roles to navigate to
this view within the Microsoft Defender
under portal select permissions in the
leftand menu next to manage mdo
permissions select email and
collaboration roles and then roles on
this page you can assign it team members
to these default Ro groups which will
only give them specific access to the
data from Microsoft Office
365 by selecting the role group itself a
list of the assigned roles appears you
can get the full list of the different
roles and permissions in the additional
resources at the end of this
lesson next let's explore how to set up
custom roles with custom roles you can
limit the access of users to only
certain relevant data with the least
permissive roles custom roles can be
created in addition to Global Azure ad
roles for instance endpoint security
analysts do not need access to all the
data within Microsoft 365 Defender
because they are only responsible for
remediating issues related to endpoints
to to create a custom role select create
a custom role in the top right hand side
of the permissions page and fill in the
configuration details on the custom roll
setup Pages for instance add a name with
a description of what the purpose of the
role is when done select next you can
then assign permissions based on three
different permission groups Security
operation security posture and
authorization and settings for the
endpoint security analyst choose the
security posture option and then select
all read and manage permissions which
will allow them to act upon
recommendations and remediate endpoints
once these steps are complete you can
select apply and then next the next step
is to assign users to the new custom
role for endpoint security analysts to
do this select add assignment on the
assignment page choose the correct data
source in this case Microsoft Defender
for endpoints and now you can add a user
user to the custom role in this example
the user Ashton is being assigned to
this role once added select next and
then review the role before selecting
submit a final confirmation page appears
to confirm the new role select done in
this video you learned that with mdo now
being part of Microsoft 365 Defender you
can manage roles centrally from the
permissions page on the portal you can
use the builtin roles for email and
collaboration to control what data users
can see in Microsoft Office
365 but you can also create custom roles
if you need even more granular control
over what data users are allowed to
access when creating a custom role you
can select what permissions the role
should have based on their
responsibility level for Sam Scoops the
built-in roles will work perfectly for
many staff members in the security team
and for staff members that do not fit
any of the default roles you can set up
customer roles to restrict access to
certain data you now know that Microsoft
Defender Services have been merged
together under one portal known as
Microsoft 365 Defender these Services
include Defender for Office 365 identity
Cloud apps and endpoint in this video
you will learn more about Microsoft
Defender for endpoint or mde and how it
helps to secure endpoints against the
latest threats and risks imagine a
retail or organization like Sam Scoops
expanding there would be many devices
across multiple locations and Sam Scoops
would need a solution to help protect
the organization's devices that aren't
always connected Can Microsoft Defender
for endpoint help look after the many
endpoints let's investigate unprotected
or misconfigured devices can pose a risk
to organizations for a retail
organization to protect itself it has to
ensure that all its devices are
protected many organizations have
suffered reputational and financial loss
at the hands of attackers attackers can
take advantage and do damage to devices
or data that means that an
organization's security posture has to
be a secure as possible given that
malicious actors regularly attempt
attacks How Can Microsoft Defender for
endpoint reduce vulnerabilities in its
setup earlier you learned that mde is an
endpoint security solution that offers
vulnerability management endpoint
protection detection and response mobile
threat defense and manage services in a
single unified platform it enables you
to prevent detect investigate and
respond to security threats and risks
across Windows Windows Server Mac OS
Linux Android and iOS devices this is
great for a retail organization because
it has a variety of devices Microsoft
Defender for endpoint takes advantage of
Technologies including endpoint
behavioral sensors these sensors gather
and process behavioral signals and
activities on the endpoints and share
this information with an MD Cloud
instance this is a great benefit for a
security team at a retail business as
endpoints are widely dispersed across
different sites and so tracking these
behaviors locally is impossible Cloud
security analytics translate these
behavioral signals into insights
detailed detections and then recommends
actions to respond to Advanced threats
it does this using tools such as UND
device machine learning big data and
cloud-based machine learning Microsoft
also uses its unique visibility into
activity across other products such as
Microsoft 365 and its Windows ecosystem
threat intelligence for Microsoft
security teams and partners provide
information that allows Microsoft
Defender for endpoint to identify tools
procedures and techniques used by
attackers Microsoft Defender for
endpoint then generates alerts when any
threats are identified in the sensored
data that it has collected mde provides
protection through several capabilities
these include core Defender
vulnerability management attack surface
reduction Next Generation protection
endpoint detection and response
automated investigation and Remediation
Microsoft threat experts centralized
configuration and administration and
apis let's examine these a bit closer
vulnerability Management in Defender for
endpoint provides risk-based Discovery
prioritization and Remediation of
misconfigurations and vulnerabilities
across endpoints Defender vulnerability
managements built in an agentless
scanners continuously Monitor and detect
risk in your organization even when
devices aren't connected to the
corporate Network next attack surfice
reduction resists attacks and
exploitation by applying mitigation
techniques and ensuring configuration
settings are set properly it provides
protection such as application control
Network protection and web protection to
regulate access to Applications domains
IP addresses and more there is also next
Generation protection which protects
against emerging threats through
behavior-based antivirus protection and
Cloud delivered protection and endpoint
detection and response enables an
organization to detect investigate and
respond appropriately to even advanc
threats that might have succeeded in
evading the attack surface reduction and
threat and vulnerability components it
also allows Advanced hunting through a
query based hunting tool to proactively
identify breaches and use custom
detections next is automated
investigation and Remediation which Ena
suff phisticated automatic investigation
and Remediation capabilities to
efficiently and consistently respond to
threats at scale and Microsoft threat
experts takes advantage of expert level
monitoring analysis and access to
experts on demand for critical threats
specific to your environment there's
also centralized management through
Microsoft 365 Defender which helps the
organization access everything that is
happening all on one portal and finally
with apis different tools such as group
policy and non-microsoft tools can be
used for device management Microsoft
Defender for endpoint comes with a
built-in API that can be used to
automate workflows and extend its
capabilities using custom apps
additionally mde integrates directly
with several Microsoft Solutions
including Microsoft endpoint manager
Microsoft Sentinel Microsoft Defender
for cloud and more to summarize
Microsoft Defender for endpoint protects
devices first by finding and detecting
them before checking their
configurations it can then remediate any
misconfigurations and close any
vulnerabilities by handling these
misconfigurations and vulnerabilities it
helps to reduce the potential attack
surface learning typical behaviors also
allows Microsoft Defender for endpoint
to identify any anomalies further
protecting endpoints all of this can be
managed through the Central management
of Microsoft 365
Defender as organizations shift more and
more of their workload to the cloud it
paves the way for employees to work from
virtually anywhere and on any device
thus organizations need solutions that
ensure the security of all their
endpoints while keeping their employees
devices current and giving them a
consistent and personalized experience
Microsoft as both a cloud provider and
operating system provider has built
comprehensive of cloud computer
Management Solutions these Solutions
provide it departments with remote
computer configurations and simplified
endpoint management Tools in this video
you'll explore how Microsoft's endpoint
Management Solutions such as Windows
autopilot Microsoft in tune and
configuration manager deliver endpoint
modernization you'll also discover the
differences between Windows 365 and
Azure virtual desktop and how device
management differs between the two
solutions
in today's workplace it departments
support different devices configured in
different ways organizations might use
Android and iOS mobile phones Windows
and Mac OS PCS and custom devices
employees bring to
work Microsoft provides the tools and
services to enable you to simplify the
management of all these devices through
their endpoint Management Solutions now
let's examine those tools and services a
little closer first first up is Windows
autopilot Windows autopilot a cloud
native service sets up and preconfigured
new devices to prepare them for use it
also resets repurposes and recovers
devices and it aims to simplify the life
cycle of Windows devices serving both it
and end users from the initial
deployment to the end of life stage
autop pilot can pre-configure devices
automatically join devices to Azure
active directory enroll devices in in
tune and customize the outof boox
experience and it can also integrate
with the configuration manager there is
also Microsoft in tune a cloud-based
endpoint management solution used to
manage user access and simplify app and
device management across many devices
this includes mobile devices desktop
computers and virtual
endpoints Microsoft InTune protects
access and data on organization owned
and users personal device devices and it
supports Android Android open- source
project or AOSP iOS iPad OS Mac OS and
windows client devices it also
integrates with other services including
Azure active directory next is
configuration manager an on premises
management solution used to manage
desktops servers and laptops that are
internet-based or on a network
configuration manager can manage data
centers apps software updates and oper
ating systems it can be cloud enabled to
integrate with in tune Azure active
directory Microsoft 365 Defender and
other cloud services additionally a tool
called co-management is available it
combines the existing on premises
configuration manager with the
cloud-based features in in tune
including using the web-based endpoint
manager admin Center co-management helps
unlock more Cloud powerered capabilities
like conditional access ultimately it
enables organizations to concurrently
manage Windows 10 or later devices by
using both configuration manager and
Microsoft in
tune next let's move on to Virtual
desktop Solutions Windows 365 and Azure
virtual desktop services are both
virtual desktop Solutions also known as
desktop as a service or Daz but there
are several important differences
between the services let's explore some
of these now Windows 365 is a
cloud-based service that automatically
creates a new type of Windows Virtual
Machine known as a cloud PC for end
users Windows 365 securely streams the
full Windows Experience including apps
data and settings from the Microsoft
cloud to any personal or corporate
device and windows manages the whole
service for you Azure virtual desktop or
avd on the other hand allows users to
connect to a Windows desktop running in
the cloud directly instead of streaming
it the desktops are virtual machines in
the customer's Azure tenant customers
build virtual machines within their
Azure tenant and can customize the
service using Azure Cloud features like
load balancing the customer has more
control with this service and they can
use features like host pools host pools
are a collection of one or more
identical virtual machines VMS within
Azure virtual desktop environments each
host pool can contain an app group that
users can interact with as they would on
a physical desktop the customer can then
control the resources published to users
through these app groups in conclusion
device modernization can be applied to
various types of devices including
smartphones tablets laptops desktop
computers and iot devices it often
involves a combination of software
updates and company policies to bring
devices up to date enhance device
security and improve user experience
Microsoft endpoint Management Solutions
make this task easier for it
administrators by providing tools that
can manage this process through easy to
use management portals Windows 365
securely streams a personalized Windows
Experience including all the apps
content and settings to any device and
as your virtual desktop allows
organizations to quickly deploy virtual
desktops and apps to enable secure
remote work these Solutions enable
organizations to meet their device
management security needs while
providing a streamlined user experience
in a changing
Workforce you have learned about the
different Microsoft tools that can be
used to deploy a device's operating
system these tools can also manage
applications and device policy but to
keep both the devices and applications
secure they also need to be kept up to
dat in this video you will learn about
how device updates can be controlled and
managed by using Windows as a service or
W and Microsoft 365 apps deployment and
update channels Windows as a service is
a modern approach to operating system
deployment and management that allows
organizations to receive regular updates
and feature enhancements it eliminates
the traditional upgrade cycle enabling a
more agile and continuous delivery of
Windows updates there are two release
types for updates type one are feature
updates which add new functionality and
are released twice a year
type two are quality updates which
provide security and reliability fixes
and are released once a month type two
updates are issued as non-security
releases or combined Security Plus
non-security releases in addition
accumulative update is released which
includes all previous updates
non-security releases allow it admins to
do an early validation of content there
are three types of deployment models
modern dynamic and traditional the
modern deployment model emphasizes
Simplicity and Agility it allows for
quick updates and feature releases
enabling organizations to stay upto-date
with the latest enhancements this method
ensures minimal disruption during the
update process making it ideal for
businesses that require seamless
transitions the dynamic deployment model
focuses on providing more control over
updates it allows organizations to
choose the timing and pace of feature
releases giving them the flexib ability
to test and validate updates before
deployment this method suits Enterprises
with complex it environments and strict
change management processes the
traditional deployment model offers a
more conservative approach to updates it
allows organizations to control when and
how updates are applied ensuring
stability and compatibility with
existing systems this model is suitable
for Industries with strict compliance
requirements or highly regulated
environments now now let's move on to
discussing the deployment methods and
update channels for Microsoft 365 apps
users can install Microsoft 365 apps
individually but managing updates and
deploying customized app selections
ensures all users have necessary apps
different deployment methods exist from
using configuration manager to
self-installing from the cloud more
information on this can be found in
additional resources one of the benefits
of Microsoft 365 app is that Microsoft
regularly provides new and updated
features for office apps for example
adding improved translation capabilities
to word or adding support for 3D
animations in PowerPoint specifying the
update Channel allows you to control how
often the users in your organization get
these new features there are three
options current monthly Enterprise and
semiannual Enterprise channels let's
examine these more closely the current
Channel receives re feature updates as
soon as they're ready but there's no set
schedule this channel also receives
security and non-security updates around
two or three times a month Microsoft
recommends this channel because it
provides users with the newest office
features as soon as they're ready the
monthly Enterprise Channel receives
feature updates once a month on the
second Tuesday of the month this monthly
update can include feature security and
non-security updates Microsoft
recommends this Channel if you want to
provide your users with new office
features once a month on a predictable
release schedule the semiannual
Enterprise Channel receives feature
updates every six months in January and
July on the second Tuesday of the month
like with the previous channel this
update can include features security and
non-security updates Microsoft
recommends this channel only for those
select devices in your organization
where extensive testing is needed before
rolling out new office features
Microsoft 365 apps regularly checks for
updates and they're downloaded and
installed automatically according to the
channel used there aren't separate
downloads for feature security or
non-security updates the updates are
cumulative so the most current update
includes all the updates that have been
previously released for that update
Channel while updates are being
downloaded your users can continue to
use office apps after they're downloaded
all the available updates for that
update Channel will install at the same
time if any office apps are open your
users will be prompted to save their
work and close the apps so that the
updates can finish
installing Microsoft offers various
deployment and update models to ensure
the security and efficiency of devices
and applications Windows as a service
was allows for regular updates and
feature enhancements with three
deployment methods cering to different
organizational needs and Microsoft 365
apps provide C customizable deployment
options and offer different update
channels allowing organizations to
control the frequency and timing of
feature releases these models and
channels enable businesses to keep their
systems up to-date while ensuring
stability and
compatibility you now know that
Microsoft Defender for endpoint can
offer vulnerability management and
endpoint detection it also offers many
other features that can all be managed
from the Microsoft 365 Defender portal
in this video you will learn about how
one such feature the Microsoft Defender
for endpoint services and capabilities
has been built into the Microsoft 365
Defender portal let's do this by
exploring how Sam Scoops would use the
endpoint feature in the Microsoft 365
Defender portal but first let's delve
into how a tenant works the first step
of using Defender for endpoint is to
onboard it this is when a Microsoft
Defender for endpoint tenant is
provisioned for Sam scooter Scoops
tenants are isolated from other tenants
this means Sam scoop's data is never
shared with other tenants and it's only
accessible to that particular
organization additionally all access is
audited to ensure data remains protected
a tenant relies on its own components
including a built-in dictionary and
custom sandboxes each tenant comes with
a built-in dictionary that defines
behavioral rules and anomaly detection
algorithms to detect suspicious events
when Gathering sensored data from
devices a tenant also enables the
creation of sandbox environments so that
suspicious files can be uploaded and
investigated and detailed reports about
those files can be generated based on
the findings of the investigations next
let's discuss the Microsoft 365 Defender
portal through which you can access the
defender for endpoint features you can
access and manage a tenant from the
Microsoft 365 Defender Portal from here
Sam Scoops can manage the security of
the devices that are part of the tenant
this is where they can use all the
capabilities they need to manage and
protect the endpoints such as threat and
vulnerability management endpoint
detection and response automated
investigation and Remediation as you've
learned the Microsoft 365 Defender
portal can be accessed through a web
portal using an internet browser the
portal can be used to view and monitor
devices and perform investigation and
device REM ation for Microsoft Defender
for endpoint let's catch up with Sam
Scoops to assess how Microsoft Defender
for endpoint can help with its needs the
business has expanded to a number of ice
cream shops and also has a warehouse to
supply them this means that its end
points are spread out across many
locations so what can Microsoft Defender
for endpoint do for Sam Scoops to
protect these dispersed endpoints let's
find out to make the most of Microsoft
Defender for endpoint sensors need to be
installed on Sam Scoops devices to
gather security related information on
each device this information is sent to
the Sam Scoops Microsoft Defender for
endpoint tenant sensors makes it
possible to detect breaches investigate
events collect information for security
analytics and more they also enable Sam
Scoops to trigger actions on devices
such as Gathering suspicious files or
isolating a device from the network this
is great for the business because these
devices can now be managed remotely Sam
Scoops can use Microsoft Defender for
endpoint to perform device Discovery and
improve visibility of all the devices in
the network mpoints that have already
been on boarded with an mpoint sensor
can then be used to actively probe
devices on the Sam Scoops Network to
enrich collected data this gives them
much better visibility over all the
devices coming onto the network and
helps track vulnerabilities once devices
have been discovered and onboarded the
security team can view the current
exposure of the or organization through
the vulnerability management dashboard
Microsoft Defender for endpoint can help
Sam Scoops discover vulnerabilities and
misconfigurations in real time based on
sensors without the need for agents or
periodic scans IT prioritizes issues
based on many factors those factors
include the threat landscape detections
within the network sensitive information
on vulnerable devices and the business
context another useful endpoint feature
available through the portal is built-in
threat and vulnerability management this
feature is Real Time cloud powerered and
fully integrated with the Microsoft
endpoint security stack it can create a
security task or ticket through
integration with Microsoft in tune
providing Sam Scoops with a complete
endpoint management system ultimately
effectively identifying assessing and
remediating endpoint weaknesses is
pivotal to running a healthy security
program and reducing organizational risk
threat and vulnerability manag
management serves as an infrastructure
for reducing organizational exposure
hardening end points and increasing
organizational resilience Defender for
endpoint provides Sam Scoops with the
tools and services needed to remotely
protect the many different sites and
devices and monitor devices as they come
onto the
network Microsoft Defender for endpoint
and the full Microsoft 365 Defender
Suite employ a range of Cutting Edge
threat Technologies including machine
learning big data analysis in-depth
threat research Behavior monitoring
threat hunting built-in sandboxes
automated investigations and expert
guidance Microsoft 365 Defender
seamlessly integrates these Technologies
and leverages the power of a unified
manager in this video you will learn how
these different Technologies are used to
help better protect organizations and
effectively prevent cyber attacks first
let's examine machine learning which
lies at the core of Microsoft Defender
for endpoint's ability to detect cyber
attacks machine learning enables the
system to recognize patterns anomalies
and indicators of compromise across vast
amounts of data by constantly learning
from Real World threats and adapting to
new attack vectors machine learning
algorithms power the detection
capabilities of the platform these
algorithms identify and analyze
potentially malicious files URLs and
email attachments significantly reducing
response time to emerging threats next
let's move on to Big Data analysis
harnessing the power of Big Data
analysis Microsoft Defender for endpoint
processes and correlates massive volumes
of security related data from various
sources this includes information from
endpoints networks and Cloud
environments by consolidating and
analyzing this data the system gains
invaluable insights into attack patterns
indicators of compromise and emerging
trends this holistic view enables
proactive threat detection and empowers
security teams to stay one step ahead of
cyber criminals staying one step ahead
of cyber attackers also means doing your
research luckily Microsoft takes care of
this for you as well Microsoft's
dedicated team of threat researchers
Works tirelessly to uncover new threats
and vulnerabilities through continuous
analysis of the threat landscape they
identify attack techniques and develop
counter measures to safeguard against
them their research enhances the
accuracy of threat detection algorithms
and ensures that Microsoft Defender for
endpoint is armed with the latest threat
intelligence having the latest threat
intelligence is crucial and this is
where Behavior monitoring can help
Behavior monitoring forms a critical
component of Microsoft Defender for
endpoint's defense strategy by
monitoring and analyzing the behavior of
processes applications and users the
system can identify suspicious
activities indicative of of a potential
Cyber attack this realtime analysis
helps prevent the execution of malicious
code and provides security teams with
immediate visibility into threats
enabling rapid response and containment
threat Technologies are also used to
proactively seek out hidden threats that
may have evaded initial detection this
is called threat hunting highly skilled
Security Professionals leverage their
expertise and advanced tools to search
for and investigate indicators of
compromise within an organization's
environment this proactive approach
enables the discovery of stealthy
threats enhancing overall security
posture but what happens when a threat
is detected and its files need to be
executed safely and Its Behavior needs
to be analyzed for this Microsoft
Defender for endpoint employs isolated
environments in the form of built-in
sandboxes by running potentially
malicious code in a controlled
environment the system can assess its
impact with without the risk of
compromising the company environment
sandboxing enables the identification of
previously unknown malware and provides
valuable insights into their behavior
facilitating better protection against
future threats other threat Technologies
like automated investigations are used
to accelerate incident response
processes when a Potential Threat is
detected the system automatically
gathers and analyzes relevant data
identifies the scope of the incident and
provides actionable recommendations for
containment and Remediation by
automating timeconsuming investigative
tasks security teams can respond swiftly
to threats minimizing the impact of
attacks while the aforementioned
Technologies and techniques form the
backbone of Microsoft Defender for
mpoint the expertise of threat
specialist is invaluable in the fight
against cyber attacks Microsoft Security
Professionals possess a deep
understanding of the threat landscape
and bring a human touch to the platform
they provide additional context conduct
in-depth investigations and fine-tune
detection algorithms to ensure the
highest level of protection against
emerging threats in conclusion as the
digital landscape evolves cyber
criminals continue to divise
sophisticated attack techniques
Microsoft Defender for endpoint Rises to
the challenge by harnessing the power of
threat Technologies machine learning Big
Data analysis indepth threat research
Behavior monitoring threat hunting
built-in sandboxes automated
investigations and the expertise of
threat experts collectively form a
formidable defense against cyber threats
by leveraging these Technologies
organizations can Safeguard their
environments detect threats in real time
and respond swiftly to mitigate the
impact of cyber attacks in today's
digital age with the surge of remote
workers and cloud-based storage usage
the importance of data encryption is
undeniable this video explores various
types of endpoint encryption offered by
Microsoft its management through
Microsoft Defender for endpoint and its
significance in securing data let's get
started with why endpoint encryption is
so important as companies have rapidly
transitioned to remote work environments
the number of dispersed endpoints has
increased dramatically each of these
devices whether they are at an office or
an employees home holds potentially
sensitive company data without
appropriate security measures these end
points can become entry points for cyber
criminals encryption provides a critical
line of defense by rendering data
unreadable to anyone without the
decryption key even if a device is loss
stolen or breached encrypted data
remains secure this measure is
especially crucial for remote workers
who often use personal networks and
storage devices that may not have the
same security levels as corporate
Networks similarly cloud storage which
has become an integral part of many
businesses requires robust encryption to
protect data with Microsoft's Cloud
encryption data is safeguarded at rest
and in transit ensuring protection
against a wide range of threats now
let's examine the different types of
endpoint encryption first is device
encryption a hardware-based encryption
solution that is built into the Windows
operating system this type of encryp
ention secures the entire device by
encrypting the contents of its internal
storage when a device is encrypted
unauthorized parties cannot access the
stored data without the necessary
decryption key even if they physically
remove the device's hard drive next is
full disk encryption or fde a
software-based security measure
incorporated into Microsoft bit Locker
as the name suggests FTE encrypts all
the data on a computer's hard drive by
default it us uses the advanced
encryption standard or AES encryption
algorithm in Cipher blockchaining it can
also use ze's tweakable block Cipher
text stealing or XTS mode with 128bit or
256bit key bit Locker prevents Hackers
from accessing the system files your
computer uses to boot up or from running
a software hacking tool while your
computer is locked or off there is also
file and folder encryption which offer a
more granular level of control compar
compared to device or full disk
encryption Microsoft's encrypting file
system or EFS provides this feature by
encrypting individual files or folders
with EFS you can protect specific
sensitive data while leaving other less
critical files unencrypted for removable
storage device encryption Microsoft
solution is bit Locker to go similar to
bit Locker it utilizes as encryption to
protect data on devices like USB drives
ensuring the safe Transit of information
between devices and locations last is
cloud encryption which has become
necessary with the proliferation of
cloud services Azure storage service
encryption automatically encrypts Data
before storing it in the cloud and
decrypts it upon retrieval and Azure
storage uses server side encryption or
ssse to automatically encrypt data when
it is persisted to the cloud this
process ensures that all data stored in
the cloud is always protected from
unauthorized access you might be
wondering how all the types of
encryption are managed and the answer is
Microsoft Defender for endpoints
dashboard using the intuitive dashboard
it administrators can monitor the bit
Locker status of each device which makes
it possible to ensure that full dis and
device encryption is consistently
maintained in this example Defender for
endpoint has flagged that bit Locker is
not turned on and so it recommends that
it is turned on on all devices this can
be remediated by sending a request to
Microsoft in tune the dashboard
integrates with other Microsoft Security
Solutions providing a comprehensive
approach to endpoint encryption in
conclusion Microsoft's encryption
offerings provide comprehensive
solutions to secure data across devices
diss files removable media and the cloud
with Microsoft Defender for endpoint
managing these encryption Services
become significantly easier enabling
businesses to maintain a robust security
posture in an increasingly digital and
distributed world in today's
interconnected world where organizations
rely heavily on digital platforms and
datadriven processes protecting
identities has become Paramount cyber
criminals constantly evolve their
tactics employing various identity-based
threats to breach organizational
defenses and compromise sensitive
information this video delves into the
realm of identity-based threats
exploring prominent attack vectors such
as fishing password spraying and and
identity spoofing furthermore it
emphasizes the critical importance of
identity defense in safeguarding
organizations and highlights the range
of solutions available to mitigate these
threats let's start by exploring fishing
attacks these attacks involve tricking
individuals into divulging sensitive
information such as login credentials or
financial data by impersonating a
trusted entity attackers use cleverly
crafted emails to lure victims to click
on a link to a fraudulent website to
trick victims into revealing their
identities the attacker can then collect
the details from the fishing website and
use it to access the actual website
sophisticated fishing techniques like
spear fishing and whaling specifically
Target high value individuals within
organizations these attacks exploit
human vulnerabilities relying on
unsuspecting users to inadvertently
disclose critical information next is
pass password spraying which is a type
of Brute Force attack where attackers
systematically test commonly used
passwords against multiple user accounts
instead of targeting a specific user
this attack seeks to exploit weak or
reused passwords across multiple
accounts for example an attacker might
gain access by testing a common pass1
123 password against a number of
accounts by leveraging automation tools
attackers can scale their efforts and
increase their chances of success once
they gain access to a single account
they often move laterally within the
organization to further compromise
identities another common type of attack
identity-based threat is spoofing
spoofing refers to the act of assuming
another person's identity to gain
unauthorized access to systems or
sensitive data attackers can exploit
weak or misconfigured authentication
mechanisms to impersonate trusted users
systems or devices
this technique often involves the use of
stolen or forged credentials such as
compromised usernames and passwords or
falsified digital
certificates by mimicking legitimate
identities attackers can bypass security
measures and gain unauthorized access to
critical Resources by now you might have
realized that protecting organizational
identities is crucial for maintaining
data Integrity preserving user trust and
preventing devastating breaches by
investing in robust identity defense
strategies organizations can fortify
their security posture and mitigate the
risks associated with identity-based
threats for instance by implementing
multiactor authentication or MFA
mechanisms organizations can add an
extra layer of security Beyond
traditional usernames and passwords MFA
requires users to provide multiple forms
of identification such as Biometrics or
Hardware tokens significantly reducing
the the likelihood of unauthorized
access identity defense Solutions also
provide mechanisms to detect and respond
to stolen credentials effectively by
employing Technologies like adaptive
authentication and behavior analytics
organizations can detect anomalous login
activities and suspicious Behavior
patterns this enables proactive measures
such as Step Up authentication or
account lockdowns preventing attackers
from exploiting compromised credentials
by implementing in granular access
controls and identity governance
policies organizations can enforce the
principle of least privilege ensuring
that users only have access to the
resources necessary for their roles
additionally these Solutions enable
continuous monitoring and auditing of
user activities enabling the detection
of unauthorized data exfiltration
attempts or fraudulent activities with
this background information about
identity theft methods and the
importance of identity defense let's
explore some of these defense
Solutions identity and access management
or IM am Solutions provide a centralized
framework for managing user identities
access Privileges and authentication
mechanisms these Solutions enable
organizations to enforce strong password
policies Implement MFA and streamline
user provisioning processes I am systems
also facilitate identity Federation
allowing secure access across multiple
systems and applications user and
identity Behavior analytics or ueba
Solutions leverage machine learning
algorithms to analyze user behavior and
identify anomalies that may indicate
potential threats by establishing
Baseline Behavior patterns ueba tools
can detect suspicious activities such as
unusual login times or access attempts
from unfamiliar locations this proactive
approach helps organizations ident
identify compromised accounts or Insider
threats quickly another identity defense
solution is privileged access management
or Pam this solution focuses on securing
privileged accounts which have elevated
access privileges within an organization
by implementing strict controls and
monitoring mechanisms Pam Solutions
ensure that privileged credentials are
properly managed regularly rotated and
only granted when necessary this reduces
es the risk of unauthorized access and
minimizes the potential damage from
Insider threats or external attackers as
identity-based threats continue to
evolve and pose significant risks to
organizations robust identity defense
measures have become imperative by
understanding the various attack vectors
such as fishing password spraying and
identity spoofing organizations can
enhance their security strategies to
protect against these threats
implementing identity defense Solutions
like I am UEA and Pam can fortify an
organization security posture Safeguard
identities and mitigate the potential
impact of breaches by prioritizing
identity defense organizations can
ensure the Integrity of their data
maintain user trust and effectively
counter the ever evolving landscape of
cyber threats in the digital age
businesses are generating vast amount of
data every day take a pharmacy for
instance from the moment a customer
walks through the door to the time they
receive their prescription an abundance
of information is collected this
includes sensitive data such as patient
records containing personal details and
their history of medication lists and
prescriptions which hold Vital
Information such as dosage instructions
and warnings but the pharmacy also
stores inventory Data Tracking stock
levels expiration dates and batch
numbers furthermore they also manage
financial data including Medical Aid
claims and billing records with this
explosion of data comes the need for
Effective management and governance to
ensure compliance security and
organizational efficiency Microsoft
perview is a powerful data governance
solution that enables businesses like
the pharmacy to gain insights into their
data assets protect sensitive data and
maintain compliance with data
regulations in this video you will
explore the key capabilities of
Microsoft purview and how it can help
you know protect and govern your data
one of the fundamental challenges
organizations face is understanding the
data they possess Microsoft purview
addresses this challenge by providing a
unified view of an organization's data
estate it automatically discovers and
cataloges data from various sources both
on premises and in the cloud allowing
businesses to gain insights into their
data assets the compliance portal in
purview offers robust data
classification capabilities empowering
businesses to identify and categorize
sensitive information effectively it
leverages machine learning algorithms to
automatically classify data based on
predefined patterns rules and metadata
for example the pharmacy can use purview
to automatically identify and label
patient records as sensitive based on
predefined rules or patterns and it can
classify prescriptions as confidential
or restricted and inventory data as
internal use only the compliance portal
supports both built-in and custom
classifiers providing flexibility to
tailor the classification process
according to specific business needs
this classification helps organizations
like the pharmacy to understand the
sensitivity of their data data and take
appropriate measures to secure it which
is the next function of Microsoft
purview you'll explore to protect data
Microsoft perview uses sensitivity
labels and sensitivity policies
sensitivity labels enable organizations
to classify data based on its level of
sensitivity sensitivity policies then
apply appropriate protection measures
based on these labels sensitivity labels
can be applied manually or automatically
based on predefined rules sensitivity
policies enforce encryption and access
control measures ensuring that sensitive
information remains protected throughout
its life cycle this example from
Microsoft Excel displays an applied
sensitivity label from the window bar
you can easily change the label by using
the sensitivity bar that's available
with the latest versions of office the
labels are also available from the
sensitivity button on the Home tab of
the ribbon sensitivity policies also o
play a role in data loss prevention or
DLP which is another critical aspect of
protecting sensitive information from
unauthorized disclosure or misuse it
allows businesses like the pharmacy to
Define policies that automatically
detect and prevent The Accidental or
intentional sharing of sensitive data
DLP policies can be customized to match
specific regulatory requirements or
business needs providing granular
control over data protection for
instance if a staff member tries to
email patient records or prescriptions
to an external recipient perview can
enforce policies to block the
transmission or encrypt the data the
third pillar of Microsoft purview helps
organizations govern their data it does
this with effective data retention and
Records management capabilities let's
focus on data retention first
organizations can utilize retention
policies and retention labels to manage
data retention effectively retention
policies Define the duration for which
data should be retained ensuring
compliance with legal Regulatory and
business requirements perview applies
retention labels to data assets to
enforce these policies and with purviews
integration with Microsoft 365 and other
data repositories businesses like the
pharmacy can automate the enforcement of
retention policies lastly efficient
records management is crucial for
organizations to maintain compliance
streamline business processes and
mitigate legal risks perview can assist
the pharmacy in effectively managing
records by providing a centralized view
of data assets it can also help create a
searchable catalog of Records making it
easier to locate and retrieve specific
patient records or prescriptions with
purview organizations can ensure that
important records are properly managed
throughout their life cycle from
creation to disposal in a compliant and
efficient manner
in the age of Big Data effective data
governance is imperative for
organizations across Industries
Microsoft perview offers a comprehensive
Suite of capabilities to address the
challenges of data management protection
and governance with its data
classification capabilities sensitivity
labels and policies data loss prevention
retention policies and Records
management features Microsoft purview
empowers businesses like pharmacies to
gain insights into their data protect
sensitive information and maintain data
compliance earlier you learned that
organizations worldwide face Rising
identity-based threats and attacks
protecting user identities and ensuring
secure access to resources is crucial
for maintaining a robust security
posture Azure active directory identity
protection can help organizations
Safeguard against identity-based threats
this video explores the key Fe features
of azure active directory identity
protection or Azure ad identity
protection you will also explore
risk-based conditional access and Azure
ad privileged identity management Azure
ad identity protection leverages
Advanced analytics and machine learning
to detect and mitigate identity related
risks it continuously monitors user
activities login attempts and
authentication patterns to identify
suspicious Behavior or pot potential
vulnerabilities let's explore key
features of azure ad identity protection
starting with user risk policies these
policies enable organizations to Define
rules and actions based on the level of
risk associated with a user for example
if a user's risk score exceeds a certain
threshold Azure ad can enforce
multiactor authentication or block
access until the risk is mitigated
another key feature of azure ad identity
protection is signin risk policies
organizations can configure policies
that assess the risk associated with
each sign-in attempt unusual signin
locations multiple fail login attempts
or suspicious IP addresses can trigger
policy actions such as requiring
additional verification steps or
blocking access next is risk events and
reports Azure ad identity protection
provides detailed reports and alerts on
identity related risk events enabling
organizations to investigate and respond
promptly to potential threats it offers
insights into risky signings compromised
identities and user Behavior anomalies
and lastly Azure ad identity protection
offers automated remediation when it
detects a high-risk event or a
compromised account it can automatically
take remediation actions such as forcing
a password reset or blocking access
until the issue is resolved this
proactive approach minim minimizes the
impact of identity-based threats next
let's focus on risk-based conditional
access which is a powerful feature that
enhances security by analyzing user
Behavior and the risk associated with
each access attempt by evaluating
multiple factors such as user location
device health and behavioral patterns
Azure ad can determine the level of risk
associated with a user's access request
through risk-based conditional access
policies or organizations can Implement
Dynamic access controls say a user
attempts to access sensitive data from
an unfamiliar location or using an
untrusted device Azure ad can prompt for
additional authentication factors or
deny access altogether this adaptive
approach ensures access policies adapt
to the changing risk landscape providing
a solid defense against identity based
attacks let's move on to another
powerful feature which is azure ad
privileged identity management
privileged accounts such as
administrator or service accounts pose a
significant security risk if compromised
Azure ad privileged identity management
or Pim helps organizations effectively
manage and control privileged access to
critical resources it reduces the attack
Surface by limiting privileged access to
only when necessary and incorporating
just in time access as well as approval
workflows
let's explore these features in more
detail starting with just in time or jit
access rather than granting continuous
privileged access Azure ad pin allows
organizations to implement jit access
providing elevated privileges only for a
limited duration when needed this
minimizes the exposure of privileged
credentials and reduces the risk of
misuse Azure ad Pim enforces approval
workflows for granting privilege access
authorized approvers review and approve
access requests ensuring accountability
and oversight what's more organizations
can track and monitor privileged access
through comprehensive auditing and
Reporting capabilities this enables
organizations to monitor privileged
activities and identify unauthorized or
suspicious actions finally Azure ad Pim
helps organizations identify and manage
privileged accounts across their
environment privileged identity
Discovery functionalities provide
insights into existing privileged roles
identify potential security gaps and
assist in establishing a strong
privileged access management strategy in
this video you've learned that Azure
active directory identity protection
offers robust features to protect
against identity-based threats and
attacks by leveraging risk-based
conditional access and Azure ad
privileged identity management
organizations can strengthen their
security posture and mitigate the risks
associated with compromised identities
implementing these features enables
organizations to adopt a proactive
approach to security constantly
monitoring and responding to Identity
related risks Azure ad identity
protection helps organizations Safeguard
critical resources from unauthorized
access and data breaches by analyzing
user Behavior detecting anomalies and
enforcing access controls in an ear
where identity based attacks are on the
rise Azure active directory identity
protection is a valuable tool for
organizations seeking to fortify their
defenses and protect their digital
assets securing user identities and
monitoring their behavior and activities
are crucial aspects of maintaining a
robust cyber security posture earlier
you learned that Microsoft Defender for
identity is one of the powerful
Microsoft 365 Defender Services that
focuses on precisely these areas it it
offers organizations a comprehensive
solution to protect user identities and
credentials stored in active directory
by leveraging learning based analytics
this Advanced security offering detects
suspicious user activities and helps
identify and investigate potential
threats in this video you will explore
the importance of monitoring user
behavior and activities the capabilities
of Microsoft Defender for identity and
how it simplifies incident response with
clear incident information on a simple
timeline user Behavior monitoring plays
a pivotal role in modern cyber security
strategies hackers and malicious actors
often exploit compromised user accounts
to gain unauthorized access to sensitive
information and Resources by monitoring
user behavior and activities
organizations can establish a baseline
of normal behavior patterns enabling
them to identify anomalies and
potentially malicious activities this
proactive approach allows for the timely
detection of security breaches and
advanced attacks reducing the impact and
mitigating potential damage Microsoft
Defender for identity employs learning
based analytics to provide organizations
with a robust defense against evolving
cyber threats but what does this mean by
continually analyzing user activities
and behaviors the system learns what
constitutes normal behavior within an
organization leveraging this knowledge
Defender for identity can detect
suspicious activities anomalous
behaviors and potential IND IND ators of
advanced attacks these learning based
analytics leverage machine learning
algorithms that evaluate a wide range of
factors such as user access patterns
authentication attempts Network traffic
and historical data by comparing current
activities against the established
Baseline the system identifies
deviations and highlights potentially
risky actions in this way organizations
stay one step ahead of attackers by
detecting threats before they can cause
significant harm
Microsoft Defender for identity also
analyzes authentication protocols and
monitors privileged account usage to
guard user identities and credentials in
Azure active directory it continuously
monitors Azure adid for suspicious
activities such as password spraying
Brute Force attacks and attempts to
elevate privileges in the event of a
security incident Swift identification
and investigation are crucial to
minimize damage and prevent further
compromise Microsoft Defender for
identity streamlines this process by
providing clear incident information on
a simple timeline this timeline
highlights key events including
suspicious activities authentication
attempts and privilege escalations
allowing security teams to quickly
triage and respond to potential threats
the incident information provided by
Defender for identity includes relevant
details such as affected users affected
machines and the context surrounding the
incident security analysts can access
this information through a userfriendly
interface enabling efficient
investigation and timely response in
conclusion Microsoft Defender for
identity offers organizations a
comprehensive solution for protecting
user identities and credentials stored
in active directory by monitoring user
behavior and activities leveraging
learning based analytics and providing
clear incident information Defender for
identity equips security teams with
powerful tools to detect suspicious
activities identify Advanced attacks and
respond swiftly to potential threats as
cyber threats continue to evolve
Solutions like Microsoft Defender for
identity become indispensable in
safeguarding organizational security and
maintaining the trust of users and
stakeholders earlier you learned that
Microsoft Defender for identity or MDI
offers a powerful defense against
identity-based attacks however to ensure
MDI is deployed successfully it is
crucial to Define Define and enforce
prerequisites plan capacity configure
essential components and establish
authentication policies in this video
you will delve into these Preparatory
steps and explore how they contribute to
securing identities and data before
deploying MDI it is essential to
establish and enforce certain
prerequisites to ensure a smooth
implementation process first ensure that
an on premises active directory or ad
environment is in place in this example
m leverages data from the ad environment
to detect suspicious activities and
potential threats you also need to
install and configure Azure ad connect
to synchronize identities between your
on premises ad and Azure ad this
synchronization enables MDI to provide
comprehensive threat detection and
protection across both environments next
let's focus on planning for capacity for
MDI deployment a vital step to ensure
Optimal Performance and scalability the
following aspects are critical when
planning capacity first determine the
number of users in your organization and
the expected growth rate this
information helps in determining the
appropriate resources and licensing
requirements for MDI and is called user
load you also need to analyze the
network traffic patterns to understand
the volume of data flowing between your
ad infrastructure and Azure this
analysis AIDS in selecting the
appropriate deployment model and network
bandwidth lastly you need to estimate
the amount of storage needed to store
security related data generated by MDI
this includes considering factors such
as retention periods and compliance
requirements the next important aspect
affecting successful deployment is the
configuration of essential components
including the configuration of Windows
Event collection or wec on dedicated
servers this is for collecting security
related events from your domain
controllers it's also important to set
up event subscriptions to forward
security Rel ated events from domain
controllers to the wec servers
additionally ensure that the appropriate
event channels such as security audit
success and audit failure are selected
this step confirms that MDI receives the
required data for threat detection and
Analysis you should also regularly
validate the event collection process to
ensure that it's successfully forwarded
to the we servers to enable Advanced
detection capabilities you have to
configure remote calls to the security
account manager or Sam database on your
domain controllers to enable remote Sam
access you need to modify the
appropriate Group Policy settings this
modification enables MDI to access and
analyze security related information
stored in the Sam database it's
advisable to regularly test the
connectivity and access permissions to
ensure seamless communication between
MDI and the Sam database let's move on
to the next important step to enhance
security and manage Access Control
control effectively organizations should
create dedicated directory service
accounts and configure role groups
within MDI assigning appropriate
permissions to these dedicated service
accounts is essential for collecting
security related data from domain
controllers and by establishing role
groups within MDI you can manage access
and assign specific responsibilities to
users for instance you can configure
roles such as administrators analysts
and Auditors defining their privileges
and limitations based on the
organization's security
requirements lastly authentication
policies should be leveraged by
organizations to strengthen identity and
data security during MDI deployment it
is essential to Define conditional
access policies within Azure ad to
enforce MFA enforce location-based
access restrictions and Implement other
Access Control measures these policies
will help protect against unauthorized
access attempts and strengthen overall
security posture additional it is
important to implement strong password
policies that enforce complexity
requirements password expiration and
password history encourage users to
utilize unique passwords and educate
them about best practices to mitigate
password related risks in this video you
learn that there are a number of
essential steps to take in preparation
for MDI deployment these include
defining and enforcing prerequisites
planning capacity configuring essential
components like Windows Event collection
and remote Sam access creating directory
service accounts configuring role groups
and setting up authentication policies
by taking these steps organizations can
establish a robust security foundation
for the successful deployment of MDI
meet Jack a software engineer and Avid
gamer with countless online profiles
open shopping carts gaming avatars and
work accounts he is the modern-day
Treasure Trove for identity thieves
enter Cipher our antagonist she is
infamous on the dark web for her uncanny
ability to infiltrate networks steal
identities and sell them to the highest
bidder one day as Jack was engrossed in
his work his Digital Shadow was being
stalked by Cipher Cipher planned to
infiltrate Jack's personal Network to
get her hands on sensitive information
to impersonate him and profit from his
digital treasure what Cipher didn't
anticipate was the silent protector
guarding Digital Life Microsoft Defender
for identity this Hightech security
system uses Advanced AI algorithms to
monitor a user's online footprint
detecting and blocking any unusual
activity that might indicate a security
breach as Cipher began her infiltration
she first tried a classic fishing attack
aiming at tricking Jack into revealing
his passwords what she didn't know was
that Microsoft Defender for identity was
already watching the AI detected the
anomalous behavior and immediately
alerted Jack of a potential fishing
attempt confused Jack dismissed the
suspicious email and changed his
passwords to more complex ones but this
was just the beginning undeterred Cipher
tried another trick up her sleeve a
Brute Force attack she hoped to crack
Jack's passwords by trying multiple
combinations in Rapid succession but
Defender for identity wasn't about to be
outwitted it quickly detected the UN
usual login attempts blocked the IP
address from where the attack was coming
from and again alerted jack feeling a
little worried now Jack realized he was
under attack to be safe he took
additional precautions enabling
multiactor authentication on his
accounts Cipher in the meanwhile grew
desperate she decided to take a riskier
approach attempting to inject a
malicious script into Jack's Network A
Move That Could Grant her administrative
access but Microsoft Defender for
identity's powerful analytics were a
step ahead it noticed the inbound
militia script isolated it and thwarted
the attack even before it could make an
impact like a seasoned chess player
Microsoft Defender was defending Jack's
Network so that it was an impenetrable
Fortress discouraged Cipher retreated
into the Shadows of the digital world
she had met her match in the form of an
AI driven security system that refused
to be outsmarted this encounter served
as a wake-up call for Jack
he realized how much his Digital Life
meant to him and how important it was to
protect it in this digital age where we
live a significant part of our Lives
online cyber security tools like
Microsoft Defender for identity act as
the shield we need they stand ready to
fend off attacks and keep us secure
giving us the freedom to enjoy our
digital lives without fear so here's to
Safe browsing secure transactions and
fearlessly living our best digital lives
well done you've made it to the end of
another week in the course let's take a
moment to review what you learned about
Microsoft 365 Defender threat protection
before you take the module quiz
Microsoft 365 Defender provides the
ultimate solution to analyzing the
threat signals from applications email
collaboration endpoints crosss Solutions
identities and more to help Security
Professionals determine the full scope
and impact of cyber threats the 36 five
Defender portal has several features it
provides a unified incidence page for
all the included services this page has
different tabs that include attack story
alerts assets investigations evidence
and response and summary it's a central
location that prioritizes cross-domain
attacks and alerts by listing each
incident by severity also including the
context and data security team's need
for a comprehensive response in this
lesson you also learned that Microsoft
365 Defender comes with two different
plan types plan two provides all the
capabilities of plan one but adds
automation investigation and Remediation
functionalities this means that threats
don't have to be investigated and
remediated manually to manage The
Defender Services you need to set up
roles and you can control permissions
based on responsibility levels of Staff
members Microsoft 365 Defender has
various default roles that you can
manage centrally from the permissions
page on the portal you can also create
custom roles and fine-tune the
permissions to ensure access to only
those resources and services required as
part of this lesson you completed a
practical exercise in which you
connected different data connectors to
Microsoft Sentinel to create a central
Viewpoint for all incidents across an
environment moving on to lesson two you
learned how Microsoft Defender for
endpoint helps to secure endpoints
against the latest threats and risks
Defender for endpoint provides
protection through several different
capabilities these include core Defender
vulnerability management attack surface
reduction Next Generation protection
endpoint detection and response
automated investigation and Remediation
Microsoft threat experts centralized
configuration and administration and
apis in today's workplace it departments
support different different devices
configured in different ways
organizations might use Android and iOS
mobile phones Windows and Mac OS PCS and
custom devices employees bring to work
Microsoft provides endpoint Management
Solutions like Microsoft in tune to
enable you to simplify the management of
all these devices you also learned about
how device updates can be controlled and
managed by using Windows as a service
and Microsoft 365 apps deployment and
update channels in this lesson you also
covered the defender for endpoint
capabilities accessible through the
defender portal for example a useful
endpoint feature available through the
portal is built in threat and
vulnerability management another feature
is realtime threat detection and
prevention leveraging machine learning
and behavioral analytics it continuously
monitors endpoint devices Network
traffic and user Behavior to identify
indicators of compromise there is also
Behavior monitoring by monitoring and
analyzing the behavior of processes
applications and users the system can
identify suspicious activities
indicative of a potential Cyber attack
Microsoft 365 Defender is classified as
an ngav or next Generation antivirus
this kind of next gen AV provides you
with features that typical antivirus
protection doesn't have for example it
offers realtime protection where it
continually scans from malware
viruses and security vulnerabilities
allowing it to stop threats before they
can do damage Microsoft also offers
various types of endpoint encryption
through Microsoft Defender for endpoint
one of those types is device encryption
a hardware-based encryption solution
that is built into the Windows operating
system this type of encryption secures
the entire device by encrypting the
contents of its internal storage finally
in lesson three you learned about
identity defense implementing identity
defense Solutions like IM am ueba and
Pam can fortify an organization security
posture Safeguard identities and
mitigate the potential impact of
breaches one of the fundamental
challenges organizations face is
understanding the data they possess
Microsoft purview is a powerful data
governance solution that enables
businesses to gain insights into their
data assets protect sensitive data and
maintain compliance with data
regulations another useful Microsoft
service is azure active directory
identity protection Azure ad identity
protection incorporates risk-based
conditional access a powerful feature
that enhances security by analyzing user
Behavior and the risk associated with
each access attempt by evaluating
multiple factors such as user location
device health and behavioral patterns
Azure ad can determine the level of risk
associated with a user's access request
you also learned about Microsoft
Defender for identity and how it
monitors user Behavior applies learning
based analytics and provides clear
incident information to protect user
identities and credentials saved in
Azure ad when deploying Defender for
identity it's essential to First Define
and enforce prerequisites plan capacity
configure essential components and
establish authentication policies after
learning about this preparation you
received a step-by-step guide to
deploying Defender for identity and that
was the end of the lesson and this week
you are now well-versed in Microsoft 365
Defender threat protection and you
should be ready for the quiz good luck
you've almost reached the end of the
Cyber Security Solutions and Microsoft
defender course what's left now is to
demonstrate the skills you've learned in
this course in a course project
comprised of setting up protection for a
virtual machine in Azure using jit Azure
Bastion Azure standard firewall as well
as Microsoft Sentinel and then you will
complete the final graded assess quiz
this gives you the opportunity to
demonstrate that you have a solid
understanding of cloud-based security
Concepts security information and event
management or scene security
orchestration Automation and response or
soar and the various capabilities of
Microsoft 365 Defender but before you
get to that let's recap what you have
learned up to this point to help
orientate you for the final project and
quiz in module one you learned about the
built insecurity measures of azure and
best practices for protecting Azure
resources this included measures to
protect against distributed denial of
service or dos attacks firewall breaches
and unauthorized access specifically you
covered the steps and requirements for
creating and configuring the two types
of azure dos protection dods IP
protection and dos Network protection
you also gained valuable exposure to
navigating the Azure portal and
completed an exercise in which you
learned how to create a virtual machine
in the Azure portal the next section was
about Azure firewall protection you
discovered the purpose of azure firewall
and its role in providing cloud-based
network security can you recall the
difference between the basic standard
and premium Azure firewall SKS you also
gained practical experience in setting
up different types of firewall rules you
then went deeper into just in time or
jit access and encryption jit is a
security feature that allows
administrators to control and limit
access to VMS by enabling temporary on
demand access for authorized users
lastly you learned about various data
encryption best practices and techniques
for data at rest and data in transit
after this you moved on to module two
which was all about Cloud security and
its importance you were introduced to
Advanced Azure security features like
Defender for cloud and azure Bastion
Microsoft Defender for cloud offers
continuous monitoring and threat
detection analysis of data and
actionable insights to prevent potential
attacks you also now know that Bastion
is a fully managed platform as a service
or PA service it allows you to securely
connect to Azure VMS remotely using
remote desktop protocol or RDP and
secure shell or SSH thus reducing the
attack surface moving on to lesson three
you learned about azure standards and
policies and how Azure policy can ensure
compliance with industry rules and
guidelines by creating assigning and
managing policy definitions you learned
about policy initiatives encompassing
multiple policy definitions and how to
apply them to an entire hierarchy of
subscriptions with Azure management
groups you also now know how to use the
built-in policies and how to create
custom policy
definitions next you were introduced to
seam and SAR seam is a solution that
helps organizations detect analyze and
respond to security threats before they
harm business operations and the main
goal of sore is to collect threat
related data and automate threat
responses you learned how seam and SAR
Technologies like Microsoft Sentinel can
detect respond to and remediate security
incidents and threats after this you
took a deep dive into Microsoft 365
Defender threat protection in the next
module this was important because
security professionals need a way to
analyze threat signals from different
infrastructure domains holistically to
determine the full scope and impact of
cyber threats and Microsoft 365 Defender
provides the ultimate solution to this
need you covered the different features
of the Microsoft Defender portal
specifically the incident page that acts
as a central location for cross domain
attacks and alerts listing each incident
by severity and providing the necessary
context for a comprehensive response you
also explored how to set up default
roles and create new custom roles in the
portal to manage Defender Services as
part of this lesson you completed a
practical exercise in which you
connected different data connectors to
Microsoft Sentinel to create a central
Viewpoint for all incidents across an
environment moving on to lesson two you
learned how Microsoft Defender for
endpoint helps to secure endpoints
against the latest threats and risks
with features such as real real time
threat detection and prevention it
continuously monitors endpoint devices
Network traffic and user Behavior to
identify indicators of compromise and
lastly you covered identity defense in
lesson three you examined identity-based
threats and attack vectors organizations
are vulnerable to the importance of
identity defense and the different
identity defense Solutions available you
covered a lot in this course this might
only be the start of your journey toward
becoming ay security analyst but you can
be very proud of yourself for how much
you've already learned and accomplished
now you're ready to tackle the course
project and graded assessment good luck
congratulations on reaching the end of
the Cyber Security Solutions and
Microsoft defender course this course
has helped you build the foundation you
need to succeed as a cyber security
analyst for example as a cyber security
analyst your responsibilities would
involve monitoring of networks to detect
vulnerabilities and potential threats
that could impact an organization's
security Your Role would also entail
implementing robust firewalls and
effectively mitigating attacks on
network infrastructures and you'd play a
vital part in devising and executing
strategies to safeguard sensitive data
from breaches and unauthorized access
learning to protect data within an Azure
environment in this course has equipped
you with the knowledge to safeguard
valuable assets and skills to uphold the
Integrity of businesses operating in the
digital realm through a mix of videos
readings and exercises you have learned
about important cyber security Concepts
and how they apply to a business
environment you now have an
understanding of the fundamental
concepts of cyber security including
cloud-based security Concepts security
information and event management or seam
and security orchestration Automation
and response or sore as well as
Microsoft 365 Defender capabilities
specifically in the exercises you
learned how to create and protect a
virtual machine with jit Azure standard
firewall and Azure Bastion as well as
monitor its security environment using
Microsoft Sentinel and you were able to
demonstrate your new found abilities in
the final project of the course
completing this course contributes
towards gaining the cyber security
analyst professional certificate from
corsera this certificate not only helps
you to enhance your skills but also gain
a qualification that can lay the
groundwork for a career as a cyber
security analyst it serves as proof of
your job Readiness and can be shared
with your Professional Network and it
will help you prepare for the exam
sc900 Microsoft security compliance and
identity fundamentals the program has
been uniquely mapped to key job skills
required in cyber security analyst roles
in each course you'll be able to
consolidate what you have learned by
completing a Capstone project that
simulates real world cybercity scenarios
you'll also complete a final Capstone
project where you'll create your own
cyber security proposal for the creation
and protection of a business network and
infrastructure when you graduate you'll
have tangible examples to talk about in
job interviews to round off your
learning you'll take a mock exam that
has been set up in a similar style to
the industry recognized sc900 exam the
exam sc900 measures your ability to
describe the following concepts of
security compliance and identity
capabilities of Microsoft entra
capabilities of Microsoft Security
Solutions and capabilities of Microsoft
compliance solutions to complete the
exam you should be familiar with
Microsoft Azure and Microsoft 365 and
understand how Microsoft security
compliance and identity strategies
provide an endtoend solution across
these platforms visit the Microsoft
certifications page at
www.ar.com
certifications to learn more about the
security compliance and identity
fundamental certification and exam now
that you have established a foundation
for making more effective use of
Microsoft 365 Defender and other Cloud
Security Solutions to protect an
organization's data and resources what's
next there's a lot left to learn about
keeping online resources safe so a good
move would be to dig deeper into cyber
security tools and Technologies you can
do so by registering for the next course
in the program doing so will enhance
your cybercity analyst portfolio and
help you gain the appropriate skills
that you need to demonstrate your
abilities in the workplace completing
all the courses in the Microsoft cyber
security analyst program will signal to
potential employers that you are
motivated capable and not afraid to
learn new things your journey of
Discovery has required a great deal of
perseverance and you should take pride
in how far you've come well done on your
achievement and you found knowledge it
has been a pleasure to accompany you on
this path of
exploration cyber threats are a constant
reality there's no escaping them every
day organizations of all sizes and
differing Industries face the daunting
challenge of defending their digital
assets from malicious actors fortunately
as the cyber security landscape
continues to evolve there are many
strategies organizations employ to
strengthen their defenses in fact one
such strategy involves hiring skilled
hackers to find vulnerabilities in an
organization's Network this practice is
known as a penetration test and is now
employed by many organizations
worldwide this course will provide you
with the skills necessary to conduct
penetration testing and Implement
additional attacks and defense
strategies you will also work with the
tools used for testing Security in Cloud
environments by successfully completing
all the courses in the series you will
earn a professional certificate from
corera this is also a great way to
prepare for the Microsoft sc900 exam
with that in mind let's go over what
your Learning Journey over the next four
weeks entails in this course you'll be
introduced to penetration testing
preventative tools and Azure penetration
testing before completing the course
with a project and assessment to start
off you'll explore the fundamental
concepts and techniques of penetration
testing you'll discover best practices
for conducting tests and the Strategies
employed to ensure successful testing
you'll also gain an understanding of
what tools and techniques are deployed
for conducting penetration tests and
learn the importance of reporting and
documenting test results then you'll
explore key security tools used to
prevent and detect Network threats
before learning the best practices used
for intrusion detection and prevention
systems or idps firewall configuration
virtual private networks or vpns and
vulnerability management Additionally
you will get get hands-on experience
with Azure learn how to configure your
VPN using it and discover vulnerability
management and how to use Azure to apply
it thereafter you will stay focused on
Azure learning how to set up and
configure penetration tests using Azure
you will also discover how to run and
analyze these tests and how the results
can be used to find and fix
vulnerabilities you will gain this
knowledge through both theoretical and
practical learning after all of this
you'll be ready for the final course
project and will have the opportunity to
apply what you've learned and put it
into practice by creating your own plan
of attack in the end of course project
this project will help you demonstrate
your understanding of the key concepts
of cyber security tools and Technologies
to help you remember what you've learned
the final week also summarizes the
course's key learning points after this
Hands-On learning you will complete one
final graded assessment but be assured
that everything you need to complete the
assessment assment will be covered
during your learning with each lesson
made up of video content readings and
quizzes to successfully complete this
course you will need a laptop or desktop
PC with a minimum of 6 to8 gigs of RAM
an internet connection access to visual
studio a subscription to MS Office 365
and an Azure cloud account you'll come
across several videos in this course
that will help you on your way to
seeking a career in cyber security walk
watch pause rewind and rewatch The
videos until you are confident in your
skills then consolidate your knowledge
by Consulting the course readings and
measuring your understanding of key
Topics by completing the different
knowledge checks and quizzes by the end
of the course you will be equipped with
the necessary skills to test within a
cloud environment and the ability to
implement testing strategies within your
organization
effectively imagine for a moment that
you could identify all the security
vulnerabilities in your computer system
application or data in the same way a
malicious attacker does what if you
could duplicate the strategies and
actions they would take and resolve
these vulnerabilities before they had
the opportunity to exploit them this is
known as ethical hacking and in this
video you will learn more about it and
explore the benefits it provides as part
of an offensive approach to security
firstly what are the differences between
offensive and defensive security
offensive security involves the
identification and exploitation of
vulnerabilities and systems while
defensive security focuses on protecting
systems from attacks both approaches
play a crucial role in maintaining a
robust security posture ethical hacking
which is a form of offensive security is
usually performed with a permission of
the target organization there is also a
growing market for companies that
perform ethical hacking and approach an
organization to demonstrate the exploits
they have found ethical hackers often
referred to as white hat hackers use
their Knowledge and Skills to discover
vulnerabilities in systems applications
and networks the organization implements
the appropriate fixes to these reported
vulnerabilities to strengthen security
the benefits of ethical hacking are
numerous and far-reaching let's explore
some of these benefits in more detail
firstly ethical hacking serves as a
proactive measure to identify and
address vulnerabilities before malicious
attackers can exploit them organizations
can significantly reduce the risk of
security breaches and protect sensitive
data from falling into the wrong hands
by taking this proactive stance secondly
by conducting thorough security
assessments and penetration tests
ethical hackers help organizations gain
a better understanding of their
weaknesses this process provides
valuable insights that can be used to
enhance security measures and fortify
defenses against against potential
threats lastly ethical hacking plays a
role in raising awareness of security
issues among employees by simulating
attacks and demonstrating the potential
consequences of security breaches
ethical hackers help educate employees
about the importance of adhering to
security best practices a more security
conscious Workforce reduces the
likelihood of human errors that can
compromise organizational security now
that you know what ethical hacking is
and the benefits it provides let's
explore how ethical hackers assess and
test system resilience including Network
penetration testing web application
penetration Testing mobile application
penetration testing and social
engineering testing let's examine each
of these in more detail firstly in
network penetration testing ethical
hackers attempt to gain unauthorized
access to a network to identify
vulnerabilities and potential points of
Entry by identifying we weaknesses in
network configurations access controls
or system misconfigurations
organizations can address these
vulnerabilities promptly secondly web
application penetration testing examines
web applications for vulnerabilities
such as input validation flaws insecure
session management or insufficient
access controls organizations can
implement the necessary patches or
security measures to safeguard their web
applications from potential attacks
thirdly with mobile application
penetration testing ethical hackers
assess apps for vulnerabilities they
evaluate the security of data storage
communication channels authentication
mechanisms and other components to
ensure the protection of sensitive
information and prevent unauthorized
access finally in Social Engineering
testing ethical hackers use social
engineering techniques to evaluate the
human element of
security through activities such as
fishing simulations impersonation
attempts or manipulation tactics they
aim to assess the susceptibility of
employees to attacks this helps
organizations to identify areas where
additional training is needed to
mitigate social engineering risks next
let's explore how an exercise known as
red versus blue holds great significance
in the realm of security testing these
exercises involve a team of ethical
hackers known as the red team attempting
to reach the security of a system while
a team of Security Professionals known
as The Blue Team defends it they help
organizations identify vulnerabilities
and enhance the skills of their Security
Professionals in a controlled and
collaborative environment in the next
videos you will learn more about the
roles and responsibilities of both the
red and blue teams in this exercise you
should now be familiar with the
fundamentals of ethical hacking and how
it is a valuable tool for organizations
seeking to improve their security
posture you should also be aware of the
various security activities ethical
hackers use to assess and test the
resilience of systems and the benefits
that this provides by leveraging the
expertise of ethical hackers and
understanding the different security
activities they perform organizations
can better protect themselves from
potential threats for any organization
to maintain a robust security posture
regular security assessments penetration
tests and red versus blue exercises are
essential
at this stage of your cyber security
Journey you should be aware that a red
versus blue exercise involves a team of
ethical hackers known as the red team
attempting to breach the security of a
system while a team of Security
Professionals known as The Blue Team
defends it in this video you will
explore the crucial role of the blue
team in cyber security firstly let's
dive into the blue team in more detail
The Blue Team safeguards syst systems
and data from unauthorized access use
disclosure disruption modification or
destruction they do this by implementing
a variety of security measures including
network monitoring vulnerability
scanning intrusion detection and
collaboration with other teams let's
examine the responsibilities of the blue
team in more detail one of their primary
responsibilities is network monitoring
through continuous surveillance of
network traffic they remain vigilant for
any indications of suspicious activity
this includes identifying unusual logins
tracking system changes and observing
patterns of increased traffic that may
indicate a potential security breach by
staying proactive and monitoring the
network closely they can quickly detect
and respond to any security incidents
minimizing their impact vulnerability
scanning is another crucial aspect of
the blue team's responsibilities they
conduct comprehensive scans to identify
weaknesses in the organization's systems
this includes checking for outdated
software versions
misconfigurations weak passwords and
known security vulnerabilities by
proactively uncovering these
vulnerabilities they can recommend and
Implement appropriate measures to
address them bolstering the
organization's defenses against
potential threats intrusion detection
also forms an integral part of the blue
team's role they deploy advanced systems
and employ sophisticated techniques to
detect unauthorized attempts to access
or alter data within the organization's
Network by promptly identifying and
responding to these intrusions they help
prevent potential damage and mitigate
the risk of data breaches another key
responsibility of the blue team is
collaboration with other teams they work
closely with the incident response team
and the IT department and may also be
members of those teams they share
information
coordinate responses and Implement
necessary security measures this ensures
a unified and efficient approach to
cyber security incidents enabling a
Swift and effective response to emerging
threats finally The Blue Team assumes a
proactive role in promoting a security
conscious culture within the
organization they conduct security
awareness training sessions to educate
employees about best practices and
potential risks by empowering employees
with the knowledge to identify and
respond appropriately to security
threats they enhance the overall
security posture of the organization
they also provide guidance to other
teams on implementing secure
configurations and practices ensuring
that they integrate security
considerations into various processes
and systems throughout the organization
so what impact does the blue team have
in an
organization well they play a critical
role in protecting organizations from
cyber threats
by implementing a variety of security
measures they can help to prevent data
breaches system outages and other
security
incidents next let's examine how
Microsoft Azure can assist the blue team
in achieving their goals Microsoft Azure
is a cloud computing platform that can
help to enhance the capabilities of The
Blue Team by offering a variety of
Security Services let's explore these in
more detail firstly Microsoft Defender
for cloud provides a comprehensive view
of security posture and identifies
potential vulnerabilities and Azure
resources secondly Microsoft Sentinel
which is a cloud native security
information and event management or Sim
solution provides intelligent threat
detection and response capabilities
thirdly Azure active directory or Azure
ad offers robust identity and access
management capabilities ensuring
authorized access to resources and
finally defend Ender for identity
provides Advanced threat intelligence
detecting suspicious activities across
on premises and Cloud environments and
enabling Swift responses to Advanced
threats now that you are aware of the
security services provided by Microsoft
Azure let's explore how Sam Scoops can
benefit from the use of these services
to enhance the capabilities of its blue
team the company can use Azure to secure
its online platform by implementing
robust measures to protect customer data
and prevent unauthorized access or
fraudulent activities more specifically
Sam Scoops can use aures network
monitoring service to continuously
monitor Network traffic to identify
suspicious activity the company can use
azure's vulnerability scanning service
to conduct comprehensive scans to
identify weaknesses in systems then with
azure's intrusion detection service Sam
Scoops can deploy Advanced systems and
techniques to detect on unauthorized
attempts to access or alter data what's
more Sam Scoops blue team can
collaborate closely with the incident
response team to investigate contain and
restore systems and finally The Blue
Team conducts security awareness
training tailored to employees you
should Now understand why the blue team
is a critical component of any
organization's cyber security strategy
by implementing a variety of security
measures they can help to prevent data
breaches system outages and other
security incidents you also learned how
Microsoft Azure provides a variety of
security services such as Microsoft
Defender for cloud Microsoft Sentinel
Azure active directory and Defender for
identity that can help to enhance the
capabilities of the blue team in the
next video you'll explore the role and
responsibilities of the red
team you know that when it comes to a
red versus blue exercise The Blue Team
stands guard to protect an
organization's digital assets and defend
against threats in this video you'll
shift your focus to the red team who
assume the role of the adversary
mimicking the actions of real world
attackers to test the security of an
organization's systems and
infrastructure the red team's function
is to understand vulnerabilities and
weaknesses in an organization's defenses
they employ various methods like social
engineering fishing and hacking to
breach security and test its
Effectiveness by using these techniques
the red team can identify potential
entry points and weaknesses that could
be exploited by actual cyber attackers
let's explore the red team's activities
and learn why they are essential for
organizations in multiple ways firstly
they provide a realistic assessment of
existing security measures helping
organizations understand their
vulnerabilities and take appropriate
actions to mitigate risks by simulating
real world World attacks they can
identify weaknesses that may have been
overlooked this ensures that
organizations have a comprehensive view
of their security posture secondly they
help organizations to identify and
address blind spots in their security
posture by simulating real world attacks
they pinpoint areas where
vulnerabilities are most likely to be
exploited this helps organizations
prioritize their security efforts and
allocate resources to strengthen their
defenses in the areas that matter the
most thirdly they contribute to
improving the overall security culture
within an organization by exposing
employees to real world threats they
raise awareness and Empower individuals
to take proactive steps in protecting
themselves and the organization these
activities serve as valuable training
opportunities helping employees to
recognize and respond effectively to
potential security risks finally
collaboration between the red and blue
teams is crucial for maximizing the
effectiveness of an organization's
security measures the red team's
assessments provide the blue team with
insights to enhance defense strategies
and Implement necessary changes this
collaborative approach ensures that the
organization's security efforts are
aligned and continuously evolved to
counter the everchanging threat
landscape as you have now learned the
red team plays a critical role in
ensuring organizations are resilient
against sophisticated cyber attacks by
simulating real world threats and
providing valuable insights they fortify
the defenses of our digital assets their
activities help organizations stay ahead
of potential adversaries by proactively
identifying and addressing
vulnerabilities before they can be
exploited now let's explore some
specific activities of the red team and
how they can benefit Sam Scoops firstly
they can conduct a comprehensive
vulnerability assessment tailored to Sam
scoop's online infrastructure and
applications they employ various
techniques such as vulnerability
scanning to identify weaknesses in the
company's online platform Network
infrastructure and cloud services these
assessments provide valuable insights
into potential vulnerabilities that
could be exploited by attackers secondly
they can conduct live site penetration
testing this ensures that Sam's Scoops
Microsoft managed Cloud infrastructure
services and applications are fortified
against potential threats the red team
can identify any vulnerabilities that
may exist and provide recommendations
for improvement by attempting to breach
the live systems and
infrastructure next they perform social
engineering testing social engineering
is a common tactic cyber criminals use
that involves manipulating individuals
to gain unauthorized access to systems
or sensitive information the red team
can assess Sam scoop's employees
susceptibility to these attacks through
simulated fishing camp campaigns or
other techniques they test the employees
awareness and response to potential
threats this helps the company to
educate its employees about potential
threats and strengthen their security
awareness another activity is risk
assessment and mitigation providing Sam
Scoops with a comprehensive
understanding of their overall risk
profile by assessing vulnerabilities and
potential attack vectors they can help
the company to prioritize and Implement
appropriate security measures and risk
mitigation strategies this ensures the
protection of sensitive customer data
and the maintenance of the Integrity of
their online operations and finally
there is security culture enhancement
the red team Fosters a strong security
culture within sem Scoops by simulating
real world attacks and providing
insights into vulnerabilities they raise
awareness among employes about potential
threats and the importance of adhering
to secure practices this encourages is a
proactive and Vigilant approach towards
cyber security throughout the
organization strengthening its overall
security posture you should now be
familiar with the red team's activities
and understand why they are crucial for
organizations in their cyber security
efforts by simulating real world attacks
conducting vulnerability assessments and
Performing penetration testing the red
team helps organizations identify
weaknesses address blind spots and
enhance their security posture for Sam
scooops they play a vital role in
securing their online infrastructure
conducting tailored vulnerability
assessments performing livesite
penetration testing and educating
employees about social engineering
threats by embracing the expertise of
the red team organizations can stay one
step ahead of potential adversaries and
Safeguard their valuable data and
systems when buying products online you
don't necessarily question the security
of the application or app platform
you're using to complete the transaction
retail companies often sell products
using an online platform that manages
purchases and maintains your account and
personal details take Sam Scoops for
instance customers can order tubs of ice
cream directly from Sam's website every
time a purchase is made the transaction
information is stored Sam has been
meticulous about ensuring this
information is kept secure but how can
Sam truly be sure that security measures
she's implemented so far work as they're
intended to if you're thinking testing
you're absolutely right this is where
penetration testing comes in or as it's
also known ethical hacking penetration
testing is a systematic and authorized
attempt to identify and exploit
vulnerabilities in a computer system
Network or application its primary
purpose is to assess an organization's
security by simulating real world attack
scenarios penetration testing now plays
a crucial role in identifying
vulnerabilities within organizational
systems and networks in this video you
will dive deeper into the world of
penetration testing exploring its
numerous benefits the challenges
organizations face during testing and
the various stages involved in
completing a penetration test let's
begin by discussing some key benefits
that penetration testing can bring to an
organization firstly awareness
penetration testing increases
stakeholders understanding of possible
sec security threats by conducting these
tests organizations Better understand
the importance of implementing robust
security measures they also learn about
the potential consequences of neglecting
them risk mitigation is another benefit
by identifying and addressing
vulnerabilities through penetration
testing organizations can reduce the
risk of potential security breaches and
data leaks by detecting these
vulnerabilities organizations can
successfully manage these risks before a
breach and take any necessary steps
lastly compliance many Industries have
regulatory requirements to test their
security by ensuring that businesses
follow industry best practices and
compliance requirements penetration
testing helps them avoid fines and
reputational harm while penetration
testing is essential for assessing your
organization's security it can present
certain challenges live penetration
testing can cause significant disruption
to normal operations this can lead to
inconvenience or even downtime for your
organization it is therefore essential
to carefully plan and coordinate testing
to minimize disruption while ensuring
thorough testing takes place in some
cases live testing may also trigger
false alarms leading to unnecessary
panic and disruption by having a clear
Communication channel with well- defined
roles and responsibilities amongst your
it teams management and employees you
can ensure everyone is aware of the
testing process leading to an increase
in the overall efficiency of the test
now that you know the benefits and
challenges of penetration testing you
may wonder how a penetration test is
carried out well penetration testing
follows a structured approach that
involves several stages the first stage
is reconnaissance ethical hackers gather
information about your organization in
this initial stage including Network
architecture system configurations and
potential entry points this information
provides a foundation for the subsequent
phases next is enumeration during this
phase testers actively probe your
organization systems identifying open
ports services and user accounts this
stage helps them gain a deeper
understanding of their target
environment and any potential
vulnerabilities the ethical hackers then
attempt to exploit the vulnerabilities
identified during reconnaissance and
enumeration they do this by simulating a
real world attack scenario to gain
unauthorized access to your system sys
or data highlighting the potential
consequences of these
vulnerabilities once inside your systems
the testers escalate their privileges to
gain administrative access and move
freely within your network mimicking an
attacker's actions this stage helps
identify potential weaknesses in Access
Control and network segmentation lastly
ethical hackers generate a comprehensive
report after completing the testing the
report will detail any vulnerabilities
discovered and their potential impact it
will also recommend remediation steps to
tighten up your security these valuable
insights will allow your organization to
prioritize and address the identified
issues effectively strengthening your
overall security penetration testing has
become an integral part of an
organization cyber security strategy by
identifying vulnerabilities and
weaknesses in systems and networks
organizations can proactively address
them before malicious actors exploit
them however however balancing security
and organizational considerations is
crucial ensuring that testing activities
do not unduly disrupt daily operations
with proper planning communication and
Remediation penetration testing can
greatly enhance an organization cyber
security this video gave you a
comprehensive overview of penetration
testing and the various stages of a
penetration
test you discovered previously that Sam
Scoops have security concerns about its
online platform and have become aware of
the importance of completing a
penetration test to uncover any
vulnerabilities in its software you also
briefly covered the five main stages of
penetration tests reconnaissance
enumeration exploitation escalation and
Reporting and Remediation in the
upcoming videos You'll witness the
implementation of the different stages
of penetration testing as Sam Scoops
carries out a penetration test on their
own platform this video will dive into
the first crucial penetration testing
stage reconnaissance reconnaissance is
exactly what it sounds like it has one
job and that is to gather all valuable
information about Sam Scoops to
understand its systems applications and
users reconnaissance involves three main
activities information gathering
footprinting and scanning firstly
information gathering focuses on
collecting data from public sources like
search engines and social media media to
understand Sam's infrastructure
Technologies and Personnel then
footprinting analyzes Sam's online
presence including websites domain names
and IP addresses this helps in mapping
out Sam's digital footprint and
identifying potential security
vulnerabilities lastly scanning probe
Sam Scoops Network and systems to find
open ports services and vulnerabilities
scanning will give a better
understanding of Sam's attach tax
surface and any potential entry points
for exploitation reconnaissance is
performed using a wide range of tools
and techniques for example search
engines are used to locate information
about websites domain names and IP
addresses social media platforms provide
valuable insights into employees
customers and partners and specialized
tools like nmap help you scan the
targets Network for open ports and
vulnerabilities let's walk through the
step-by-step process of how you
implement the reconnaissance stage for
Sam Scoops firstly you need to identify
the Target and Define if it is a company
website or network this helps ensure
that you gather relevant information
next utilize search engines social media
and other public sources to collect data
about the Target's website domain names
IP addresses and more then analyze the
target's online presence inspect the
website source code explore domain name
registration information and use who is
lookup to gather details about hosting
providers and DNS records now you can
probe the targets Network and systems
using tools like nmap nasus or openvz to
identify open ports services and
vulnerabilities you will learn more
about these tools in stage two it's also
crucial that throughout the
reconnaissance process you document all
the information you gather you can then
analyze this collected data to identify
patterns vulnerabilities and potential
entry points for
exploitation lastly once the
reconnaissance phase is complete compile
a detailed report summarizing your
findings this report includes the
vulnerabilities discovered their
potential impact on security and
recommendations for remediation this
report is then shared with Sam Scoops to
help them improve their cyber security
reconnaissance is a critical phase of
the penetration testing process it
allows you to gather intelligence
identify weaknesses and plan all the
subsequent stages of the test
effectively through reconnaissance you
can replicate real world attacks and
help organizations strengthen their
security reconnaissance is the key to
uncovering vulnerabilities and ensuring
robust security next you will explore
the next stage of penetration testing
enumeration remember penetration testing
should always be conducted with proper
authorization and within legal
boundaries
the goal is to strengthen security not
cause
harm now that the reconnaissance stage
is complete Sam Scoops move on to stage
two of the penetration testing process
enumeration in this video you'll learn
how organizations use the enumeration
stage of penetration testing to identify
open ports services and vulnerabilities
on a Target system enumeration is
crucial to the penetration testing
process because testers use it to assess
assess a Target system giving testers
valuable insights into the system
security firstly let's explore what
enumeration is in more detail
enumeration is the process of gathering
information about a Target system this
information can include the system's IP
address operating system open ports
running services and even usernames and
passwords enumeration uses various tools
and techniques including Port scanning
Banner grabbing and network sniffing but
why is the enumeration phase in the
testing process so crucial there are a
variety of reasons for this first it
assists you in locating weaknesses that
a potential attacker may take advantage
of for instance if you notice that a
Target device in Sam Scoops is using an
outdated operating system you can look
up known vulnerabilities for that
version of the operating system and try
to attack them second enumeration can
help you to better understand the target
systems overall security using this
information you can prioritize which
areas of the system should be attacked
now let's explore some of the tools and
techniques you can use to complete the
enumeration stage firstly nmap is a tool
that helps you explore and understand
the target system you are testing it
works like a scanner checking for open
doors or ports on the system ports are
like computer entry points that allow
different services to communicate by
scanning for open ports and map can tell
you which services are running on the
target system such as web servers email
servers or file sharing Services it also
determines what operating system is
running on the target system this
information is valuable because it helps
you understand what potential
vulnerabilities might exist and what
kind of security measures are in place
next is nases another tool utilized to
scan for Target system
vulnerabilities it's more focused on
finding specific weaknesses in the
systems configur configuration or
software that an attacker could exploit
nasus has a database of known
vulnerabilities and performs
comprehensive scans to check if the
target system is susceptible to any
known issues it even generates detailed
reports highlighting any vulnerabilities
found allowing you to prioritize and
address them however as a commercial
tool nases may require a license to
access its features thoroughly a common
technique used by testers is Banner
grabbing do you ever notice a banner
displayed when a service starts on your
system it's usually a small piece of
text that provides information about the
service in Banner grabbing you collect
these banners to gather information
about the system the banners can contain
details like the name of the service the
version being used and the vendor who
developed it this information is helpful
because it allows you to understand what
software is running on the target system
and potentially identify known
vulnerabilities associated with specific
conversions or vendors last is Network
sniffing which involves capturing and
analyzing Network traffic flowing
between devices on the network allowing
you to examine the transmitted data
including usernames passwords and other
sensitive information Network sniffing
helps uncover potential security
weaknesses such as weak encryption
protocols or unencrypted
communication you should note that
Network sniffing should only be
performed on networks where you have
proper authoriz ation as unauthorized
sniffing is illegal and
unethical when you implement the
enumeration stage there are several best
practices you should follow starting
with proper reconnaissance as you
learned earlier gathering information
about the target system beforehand is
crucial it allows you to focus your
enumeration efforts effectively and as
you may remember this information is
collected through various means like
social engineering website analysis and
public records next be mindful of the
scan intensity and timing conducting
scans with high intensity or during
critical business hours may cause
disruptions coordinating with system
owners and stakeholders is crucial to
minimize any impact you should also
analyze the results of your enumeration
it's not just about finding open ports
and services but also understanding
their significance in the context of the
target system this will help you
prioritize your next steps using the
information you can prioritize which
areas of the system should be attacked
and lastly maintain documentation
throughout the enumeration process
documenting your findings observations
and actions taken allows you to create a
comprehensive report that will Aid in
future Assessments in conclusion
enumeration is another crucial step in
the penetration testing process giving
you a better understanding of a Target
system this video demonstrated the
importance of enumeration and expl
explored several tools and techniques
before outlining the best practices for
performing effective enumeration by
conducting thorough enumeration you can
identify weaknesses prioritize areas for
further testing and ultimately enhance
the overall security of the target
system Sam Scoops is now ready to move
on to the next stage of the penetration
testing process the testers have
gathered the information required
through stages one and two and are
prepared to carry out their authorized
attack this video will focus on stage
three of the penetration testing process
exploitation exploitation takes
advantage of a Target system's
vulnerabilities to gain unauthorized
access previously you discovered how as
a penetration tester you gather
information about a Target system to
identify vulnerabilities stage three is
where you exploit these vulnerabilities
to gain unauthorized access to a Sam
scoop system there are many ways to
exploit vulnerabilities including buffer
overflow SQL injections and cross-site
scripting a buffer overflow occurs when
more data is written to a buffer than it
can hold this causes your system to
crash allowing an attacker to execute
arbitrary code on your system next SQL
injection is a technique for injecting
malicious SQL code into your database
this could allow the attacker to steal
data from your database or even take
control of your database server lastly
cross-site scripting or xss s is a
technique used to inject malicious
JavaScript code into your web page
allowing the attacker or penetration
tester to steal cookies or other
sensitive information once you have
exploited a vulnerability you will gain
unauthorized access to the Target system
unauthorized access allows you to move
laterally which allows you to gain
access to other systems on the network
or steal data such as financial data
customer data or intellectual property
install malware which can give you
control of the system or steal data from
it and disrupt operations by deleting
files disabling services or causing
other problems once you've gained
unauthorized access to the system the
next step is to inject a payload into
the system a payload is a piece of code
that is executed on the target system
the payload can serve various purposes
such as stealing data being used to
steal sensitive data from the system
such as financial data customer data or
intellectual property or installing
malware the payload can be used to
install malware on the system which can
give the attacker control of the system
or steal data from the system and
disrupting operations the payload could
also be used to disrupt the operation of
the system by deleting files disabling
services or causing other problems the
penetration tester will often analyze
the payload to determine what it does
and how it works this information can be
used to improve the security of the
system and prevent future attacks this
final step of payload injection
highlights the ethical considerations
that accompany exploitation and
penetration testing where ethical
hackers conduct hacking activities with
a permission of the system owner with
the intent to improve system security
organizations worldwide are now hiring
ethical hackers to test their security
systems weaknesses helping businesses
identify and fix vulnerabilities before
malicious attackers can exploit them a
component of ethical hacking involves
using techniques that will only cause
minimal damage to the system while
responsible disclosure involves
reporting vulnerabilities to the system
owner in a timely manner during the
process of penetration testing
collaboration is essential between the
hackers and the organization to enable
the strengthening of security measures
and protection against malicious attacks
organizations Security Professionals and
ethical hackers can all play a role in
improving sec security working together
can make it more difficult for malicious
attackers to succeed this video took a
deep dive into stage three of
penetration testing exploitation where
you learned the steps involved for
completing the exploitation process and
several of the techniques that are used
in the industry
today as Sam Scoops progresses through
their penetration testing Journey they
have successfully completed the
reconnaissance enumeration and
exploitation stages uncovering valuable
information and identifying
vulnerabilities now it's time to go into
the crucial Next Step escalation this
video will guide you through the
essential steps involved in the
escalation stage of the penetration
testing process you will also explore a
range of best practices employed by
ethical hackers to ensure effective
completion of this stage the escalation
stage of a penetration test focuses on
three main goals consolidating access to
your systems achieving privilege
escalation and extracting sensitive data
the first step in the escalation process
is to consolidate access to a Target
system this means ensuring that you have
persistent and reliable access even if
the initial exploit is patched or
disabled there are several ways to
achieve this firstly back doors are
malicious programs or configurations
that provide unauthorized access to a
system they can be created by you or by
exploiting a vulnerability in the system
once a back door is in place you can use
use it to regain access to the system
even if the initial exploit is patched
next are remote access Trojans or rats
they are malicious programs that allow
you to control a compromised system
remotely rats can be used to execute
commands steal data or install other
malware on the system you also have web
shells which are malicious scripts or
programs that are uploaded to a
compromised web server web shells allow
you to execute commands on the web
server such as a up loading files
deleting files or changing configuration
settings now that you have Consolidated
access to a system the next goal is to
achieve privilege escalation this means
gaining access to higher level accounts
such as administrator accounts privilege
escalation can be achieved in several
ways including exploiting
misconfigurations within systems for
example if a system allows employees to
create their own accounts with
administrator privileges you could
create an account and then use that
account to gain access to sensitive data
or exploit vulnerabilities like
unpatched software or known
vulnerabilities which can be leveraged
to elevate privileges for example if a
system is running an unpatched version
of a web application that has a known
vulnerability you could exploit that
vulnerability to gain access to the
system with administrator privileges the
final goal of escalation is to extract
sensitive data from a system sensitive
data can include anything from financial
information customer data or
intellectual property there are several
techniques utilized by penetration
testers for extracting data from a
system including file transfer protocols
or FTP secure copy protocol or SCP and
secure file transfer protocol or SFTP
can transfer files from the target
system to your machine or steganography
which is the practice of concealing data
within another file such as an image or
a document this can be used to EV
detection by security measures such as
antivirus software and lastly Network
tunnels can be established between your
machine and the target system this
allows you to transmit data over the
network without it being visible to
network
administrators now that you understand
how escalation is performed let's
explore several best practices you
should adhere to when implementing the
escalation stage firstly it's crucial
that you obtain proper authorization and
follow legal compliance before before
you conduct any penetration testing
activities this includes obtaining a
written agreement from the organization
that authorizes the penetration test and
outlines the scope of work next ensure
that all findings from the penetration
test are documented and reported to the
organization this report should be clear
and concise and should include all
relevant information such as details of
any vulnerabilities found the impact of
those vulnerabilities and any
recommendations for remediation you
should also ensure the penetration
testing is conducted in a sandbox or
isolated environment meaning that the
target system should be isolated from
any live production environment this
ensures that any damage caused by the
penetration test will not affect the
production environment and lastly stay
up to dat with all the latest
vulnerabilities exploits and security
news this will help you identify and
exploit weaknesses in the Target system
the escalation stage is a critical step
of the penet rtion testing process by
following the correct steps and adhering
to best practices penetrating testers
can assist organizations in identifying
and mitigating security risks this video
explored the techniques used to
consolidate access before examining
privilege escalation and data
exfiltration you also gained a deeper
understanding of the different tools and
techniques that can be used and best
practices for performing
escalation Sam Scoops has undergone four
stages of the penetration test to assess
the security of their
platform reconnaissance enumeration
exploitation and escalation now the
testing is entering the Final Phase
reporting and Remediation this crucial
stage of the penetration testing process
takes place once the vulnerabilities
have been identified and exploited this
video will discuss reporting's best
practices and highlight the importance
of reporting you will also learn the
significance of having having a robust
remediation process reporting and
Remediation allows you to confirm your
findings provide recommendations for
remediation and work with the
organization to implement those
recommendations the reporting stage is
critical to the success of the
penetration testing process a
well-written report can clearly
communicate the outcomes of the test it
will also provide Sam Scoops with a list
of the vulnerabilities located and the
steps required to mitigate against those
vulnerabilities
this report should include an executive
summary that provides a highlevel
overview of the findings of the testing
it should also provide a section
detailing vulnerabilities located during
the test and an impact assessment for
each of these vulnerabilities then a
list of recommendations to remediate
against these vulnerabilities and lastly
an appendix which includes any
supporting documentation such as
screenshots or network diagrams in the
vulnerability section of the report you
should also ensure that each
vulnerability noted includes the name of
the vulnerability and a description of
the vulnerability you should also detail
the impact the vulnerability will have
on Sam Scoops and what steps are
required to remediate against that
vulnerability and lastly a list of
recommendations for addressing the
vulnerabilities you should also ensure
any steps required for remediating
against the vulnerabilities are specific
actionable and prioritized based on the
severity of the
vulnerability just like previous stages
there are several best practices you
should follow when writing your report
first use clear and concise language in
the report write it in a way that is
easy for both Technical and
non-technical audiences to understand
next be specific the report should
provide information about the
vulnerabilities that were found as well
as steps that can be taken to remediate
those vulnerabilities the report should
also provide recommendations that are
specific actionable and prioritized
based on the severity of the
vulnerability and lastly deliver the
report in a timely manner remediation is
equally important a solid remediation
process ensures that any vulnerabilities
found during the penetration test are
mitigated quickly and effectively to
ensure a successful remediation process
you should communicate effectively with
the organization throughout the process
you should also prioritize the
vulnerabilities based on the severity of
the risk
and make sure these vulnerabilities are
remediated promptly and lastly test this
remediation process to ensure that it is
effective as you have discovered in this
video reporting and Remediation is
another vital step in the penetration
testing process it's the final piece of
the puzzle that allows you to document
findings provide recommendations and
implement the remediation measures that
organizations can use to address their
vulnerabilities and minimize the risk of
potential attacks
you also Now understand that clear and
concise reports cater to both Technical
and non-technical audiences which
facilitates stakeholder understanding
and decision- making the remediation
process also ensures compliance with any
regulatory requirements by emphasizing
the significance of reporting and
Remediation a comprehensive approach to
cyber security will ultimately Safeguard
critical assets and maintain data
Integrity does the SEC security of your
organization systems and network concern
you this video will demonstrate how you
can stay one step ahead of the ever
evolving tactics employed by attackers
by exploiting the miter attack framework
a gamechanging tool that can
revolutionize your cyber security
strategy you'll examine the miter attack
framework's powerful components and
explore the invaluable benefits it
offers organizations But first you are
probably wondering what exactly the
miter attack framework is
well miter attack stands for adversarial
tactics techniques and common knowledge
it is a knowledge base of adversary
tactics and techniques that is curated
and maintained by miter a nonprofit
organization with expertise in security
systems engineering and information
technology the framework comprises two
main sections tactics and techniques
let's begin with tactics first is
reconnaissance the process of gathering
information about a Target like its IP
addresses employee names and network
infrastructure next is resource
development which relates to acquiring
the tools and resources needed to carry
out an attack such as malware hacking
tools and fake identities then you have
initial access a tactic focused on
gaining access to a Target system such
as through a fishing email or a
vulnerability in software once inside
the system execution comes into place
play attackers use malicious code on a
Target system like a virus or a trojan
horse next is persistence which is a
tactic used to maintain access to a
Target system after initial access has
been gained such as by creating back
doors or rootkits privilege escalation
is all about gaining higher privileges
on the target system this can provide
the attacker with enhanced control and
Authority such as administrator
privileges defense evasion is employed
to hide malicious activity from
detection by security tools such as by
using encryption or obfuscation
techniques credential access involves
stealing or obtaining the credentials of
an authorized user such as a username
and password which can be used to gain
access to systems and data Discovery
focuses on locating sensitive data or
systems on a Target Network such as
financial data or intellectual property
lateral movement comes into play when
attackers move from one system to
another on a Target Network this is
usually done by exploiting firewall
vulnerabilities or using shared accounts
collection involves Gathering sensitive
data from a Target system such as
financial data customer records or
intellectual property command and
control tactics involve establishing
communication with a remote attacker or
exfiltration is the act of sending
stolen data to a remote attacker and
lastly impact fact the consequences that
these Cyber attack tactics have on an
organization can include Financial loss
data breaches or reputational damage
it's crucial to remember that these
tactics are not necessarily in order and
attackers may switch between them as
necessary for example an attacker May
first gain access to a system through a
fishing attack then use that access to
install malware that gives them
persistent access they may then use that
access to to escalate their Privileges
and steal credentials which they can use
to move laterally to other systems in
the network Security Professionals can
better protect their systems and
networks by understanding the different
phases of an attack and make it harder
for attackers to succeed by putting
security measures in place at each level
let's explore several techniques that
attackers employ during each phase of an
attack first is the command and
scripting interpreter which executes
commands
then there's OS credential dumping which
extracts passwords and other credentials
from the operating system while proxy
intercepts and redirects traffic to a
malicious server process injection can
load malicious code into a legitimate
process there's also masquerading which
impersonates a legitimate user or
process while valid accounts uses valid
credentials to gain access to a system
you also have public facing application
this exploits a vulnerability in a
public facing application to gain access
to a system there's also modify registry
which changes the registry to create
persistence or modify security settings
and also scheduled task job which
creates a scheduled task or job to
execute malicious code at a later time
and lastly impaired defenses which
disables or evades security controls to
make it easier to attack a system
understanding these techniques can help
organizations Better prepare and defend
against potential threats miter attack
framework has several benefits including
improving the threat detection and
response capabilities of an organization
by helping organizations to identify and
prioritize security risks you can
Empower them to deploy targeted security
controls against the most likely threats
they may encounter implementing the
miter attack framework also leads to the
overall Improvement of the
organization's cyber security the
adaptability of the miter attack
framework also plays a crucial role in
assisting organizations in defending
themselves against the ever evolving
threats they face making it an
indispensable tool for any organization
seeking to strengthen their cyber
security defenses the miter attack
framework is an invaluable resource for
organizations seeking to enhance their
cyber security by comprehending the
tactics and techniques used by attackers
organizations can proactively defend
themselves against potential threats the
framework brings increased visibility
improved threat detection and response
and an overall strengthening of security
the miter attack framework remains at
the Forefront of defense strategies
miter constantly updates and expands the
framework to meet the evolving needs of
the cyber security Community they
continually incorporate new tactics and
techniques into the framework and strive
to cover emerging platforms and
Technologies imagine for a moment that
you have a mechanical box in front of
you you know what you put into the box
and what you take out of it but you have
no understanding of its internal
mechanisms your focus is solely on
manipulating the inputs and observing
the outputs blackbox testing follows a
similar principle and over the next few
minutes you'll learn about this crucial
approach to software and penetration
testing black box testing is a technique
where you examine the functionality of a
system without having any knowledge of
its internal workings in other words you
treat the system as a black box focusing
solely on the inputs and outputs and not
concerning yourself with the internal
code or structure this approach allows
you to evaluate the system from an
external perspective mimicking the
actions of a potential attacker and
identifying vulnerabilities that could
be exploited the blackbox testing
approach typically consists of four
steps requirement analysis test case
design test execution and defect
reporting in the first step you gain a
thorough understanding of the system's
requirements including its intended
functionality and expected outputs this
helps you establish what the system
should do and what results it should
produce next you design test cases that
cover different scenarios including both
valid and inval valid inputs boundary
values and special cases by designing
comprehensive test cases you increase
the chances of uncovering
vulnerabilities or weaknesses in the
system the designed test cases are then
executed against the system during this
step you input various data and examine
the corresponding outputs to identify
any inconsistencies or issues this step
involves meticulous observation and
comparison of actual results with
expected results finally any defects or
issues discovered during testing are
reported to the development team or
relevant stakeholders for further
investigation and resolution this
ensures that identified problems are
properly addressed and
rectified performing blackbox testing
during penetration tests helps you to
identify various vulnerabilities and
attack vectors like injection attacks
cross-site scripting authentication and
authorization a flaws and
misconfiguration injection attacks refer
to SQL or command injections where an
attacker manipulates input data to
execute malicious commands within the
system by conducting blackbox testing
you can identify vulnerabilities that
could potentially allow unauthorized
access or data breaches cross-side
scripting vulnerabilities allow
attackers to inject malicious scripts
into web pages viewed by other users
identifying these vulnerabilities is
crucial cral as they can lead to session
hijacking or Data Theft authentication
and authorization flaws can enable
unauthorized access to sensitive
information or functionalities within a
system this is why it's important to
identify weaknesses in the
authentication and authorization
mechanisms of the system improperly
configured systems can expose sensitive
data or provide unintended access to
unauthorized individuals by analyzing
the system during blackbox testing you
can identify any misconfigurations that
could be exploited by attackers to
effectively perform blackbox testing
various tools are employed to identify
vulnerabilities and automate certain
testing processes some popular tools
used for blackbox testing include burp
Suite oasp zap nessus and Metasploit
burp Suite is a powerful toolkit for web
application security testing it lets you
intercept analyze and modify HT ttps
traffic enabling you to identify
vulnerabilities and assess the security
of web applications oasp app is an
open-source web application security
scanner it helps you identify
vulnerabilities in web applications by
actively scanning and analyzing their
security nessus is a comprehensive
vulnerability scanner that scans
networks and systems for known
vulnerabilities you can use nesses to
identify potential weaknesses that could
be exploited by attackers finally
Metasploit is a widely used penetration
testing framework that provides a range
of tools and exploits to simulate
various types of attacks you can use
Metasploit to assess the systems
resilience against different attack
vectors blackbox testing plays a vital
role in both software testing and
penetration testing by treating the
system as a black box and focusing
solely on its inputs and outputs you
gain a valuable external perspective to
evaluate its
functionality this approach mirrors the
actions of potential attackers enabling
you to uncover vulnerabilities that
could be exploited in this video you
discovered that blackbox testing helps
you identify various vulnerabilities and
attack factors like injection attacks
cross-site scripting authentication and
authorization flaws and
misconfiguration addressing these
weaknesses is crucial because they can
lead to unauthorized access data
breaches session hijacking or data theft
by simulating real world attack
scenarios and following a systematic
approach while utilizing specialized
tools you can effectively identify
potential security risks and provide
recommendations to enhance the system's
overall security blackbox testing means
examining a system solely based on its
inputs and outputs without any knowledge
of its internal workings but now let's
take it a step further
imagine that you not only know what you
put into the box and what you should get
out of it but you also have an in-depth
understanding of its internal mechanisms
with this knowledge you can manipulate
the inputs observe the outputs and even
examine the intricate details of how the
Box functions this approach forms the
basis of white box testing another
crucial approach to software and
penetration testing in this video you'll
explore more about what white box
testing entails and its role in
penetration testing white box testing
also known as clear box testing or
structural testing is a method of
software testing where you have access
to the internal structure design and
code of the system being tested by
examining the internal components of the
software such as its algorithms data
structures and control structures you
can identify potential issues
vulnerabilities and areas of improvement
now let's explore the key approaches to
white box testing Tes in the first is to
review the source code of the system
being tested this involves analyzing the
code line by line to identify potential
vulnerabilities logic errors and other
issues that could impact the system's
functionality or security the code
review process may involve manual code
inspection as well as the use of
automated tools next code coverage
analysis is an essential aspect of white
box testing it ensures that all parts of
the code or exercise during testing code
coverage analysis tools are used to
measure the percentage of code that is
executed during testing this helps
ensure that no critical code paths are
left untested whitebox testing often
includes unit testing where individual
units or components of the software are
tested in isolation unit tests focus on
testing specific functions methods or
modules to ensure that they behave as
expected this help helps identify any
bugs or flaws within specific units of
the system path testing is a technique
used in white box testing to analyze
different execution paths within the
software by traversing through various
decision points and branches in the code
you can identify potential issues or
vulnerabilities that might arise in
specific scenarios path testing aims to
cover all possible paths and conditions
within the code Branch Testing is
another approach used in white box
testing it involves evaluating every
possible decision outcome within the
code each branch is tested including
true and false branches to ensure that
all possible decision outcomes are
covered this helps minimize the risk of
untested code paths white box testing is
a valuable technique in assessing the
security of a system but how is it used
in penetration testing there are a few
techniques from code review and fuzz
testing to static and dynamic analysis
let's explore these in more detail
during code review the system's source
code is meticulously examined to
identify potential security
vulnerabilities by carefully analyzing
the code you can uncover insecure coding
practices back doors or other security
flaws that malicious actors can exploit
code review helps identify and fix
security issues at the source code level
fuzz testing also known as fuzzing
involves providing invalid unexpected or
random data inputs to the system to test
how it handles them by subjecting the
system to various inputs including edge
cases and malformed data you can
identify potential vulnerabilities or
weaknesses in the system's input
validation and error handling
mechanisms static analysis is a
technique where you analyze the source
code without executing it here you can
use static analysis tools that examine
the code structure syntax and patterns
to identify potential security
vulnerabilities these tools can help
detect common vulnerabilities such as
SQL injection or cross-site scripting
Dynamic analysis also known as runtime
analysis involves executing the system
and monitoring Its Behavior in real time
Dynamic analysis tools can be used to
capture Network traffic identify
potential security weaknesses and
understand how the system responds to
various inputs this approach helps
uncover vulnerabilities that may not be
apparent during static
analysis white box testing offers a
unique perspective into the inner
workings of a system allowing for a
comprehensive assessment of its security
and reliability it plays a vital role in
penetration testing enabling the
identification and Remediation of
security flaws at the source code level
by incorporating white box testing into
the software development life cycle
organizations can enhance their overall
security posture and ensure the delivery
of robust and resilient systems
techniques like blackbox and white box
testing have long been the go-to
approaches for penetration testing
however there is another technique that
brings together The Best of Both Worlds
graybox testing in this video you will
explore the concept of graybox testing
and discover its role in penetration
testing gray box testing combines
elements of both blackbox testing and
white box testing it is called gray box
because it represents a middle ground
between complete ignorance and full
knowledge of the internal workings of
the system being tested on the one side
you have blackbox testing a technique
where you enter the testing phase with
no knowledge of the internal structure
of the system it's like trying to solve
a puzzle without even knowing what the
picture looks like on the Box in this
approach you you evaluate the systems
functionality inputs and outputs without
any understanding of its internal
workings you focus on testing the system
from a user's perspective without
considering the implementation details
on the other side there's white box
testing which provides complete
knowledge of the systems internals you
have access to the source code
architecture and design it's like having
the complete puzzle in front of you
allowing you to test the systems
internal logic structure and Pathways
this approach is more focused on
uncovering issues within the code Baye
and verifying the correctness of the
implementation gray box testing emerges
as the perfect mix between black box and
white box testing it's like solving a
puzzle with some hints you're not
completely in the dark but you're not
handed the entire picture either in gray
box testing you have some information
about the system you're testing for
example you might know the overall
structure of the the system have access
to design documents or limited knowledge
of the source code this partial
knowledge helps you understand how the
system works internally even though you
don't have the full picture with this
understanding you can design tests that
are more focused and efficient for
example let's say you're testing a
website and you know the highlevel
architecture of the system you can then
Target specific areas like the login
process payment Gateway or user
authentication by concentrating tring on
these areas you can identify
vulnerabilities and security weaknesses
that might exist for instance with the
knowledge of the systems architecture
you might test if the login process is
secure by trying different combinations
of usernames and passwords you can also
check if the system properly handles
invalid inputs such as entering special
characters in the payment form by
simulating real world attack scenarios
you can uncover potential
vulnerabilities that an attacker might
exploit even though you don't have
complete visibility into the system the
partial knowledge you have as a graybox
tester allows you to make educated
guesses and decisions about where to
focus your testing efforts this helps
you identify potential issues and
improve the overall security of the
software application in essence graybox
testing combines the advantages of
blackbox testing like evaluating the
system from a user's perspective and
white box testing having full knowledge
of the systems internals it provides a
balanced approach allowing you to test
the system efficiently while considering
its internal structure graybox testing
is particularly valuable in the context
of penetration testing penetration
testing involves actively assessing the
security of a software application by
simulating attacks and attempting to
exploit vulnerabilities by having access
to internal information graybox testing
provides a more comprehensive evaluation
of the system security posture in
graybox testing several common
approaches are used during penetration
tests one such approach is architecture
analysis here you analyze the high level
architecture of the system identifying
potential weak points and areas
vulnerable to attacks by understanding
the systems components and their
interactions testers can design tests
that focus on these areas effectively
exploiting potential security gaps
another approach used graybox testing is
data flow analysis in this approach you
examine the flow of data within the
system tracing its path from inputs to
outputs the objective is to identify
potential security vulnerabilities in
the way sensitive data is handled
ensuring that it is adequately protected
and cannot be intercepted or manipulated
by malicious actors API testing is also
a crucial aspect of gray box testing
this is where you focus on testing the
application programming interfaces or
apis of the system which are responsible
for interacting with other components or
external systems with partial knowledge
of the system you can analyze API
documentation test input validation and
check for potential security flaws in
the way apis handle data and access
control while graybox testing does not
provide full access to the source code
you may have limited access to specific
sections or modules this allows you to
conduct code reviews searching for
coding flaws insecure practices or
potential back doors that attackers
could exploit even with limited
visibility code reviews can reveal
critical security issues that might
otherwise go unnoticed all in all gray
box testing combines the strengths of
both black box and white box testing by
leveraging the partial knowledge
available you can design targeted and
effective tests simulating real world
attack scenarios and ensuring the
overall security of software
applications by embracing graybox
testing alongside other testing
methodologies you can enhance the
robustness and resilience of your
applications ensuring a safer digital
environment for
users in an era where technology drives
modern-day business the stakes have
never been higher for organizations to
protect their valuable data and systems
as the threat landscape expands and
becomes more complex proactive measures
prove to be indispensable to ensure
robust security throughout your learning
this week you discovered that
penetration testing emerges as a
powerful tool for this specific purpose
it goes beyond traditional security
measures to assess the robustness and
resilience of digital systems by
simulating real world attacks
penetration testing helps organizations
uncover vulnerabilities strengthen their
defenses and ensure the security of
their valuable assets to help embed what
you've learned let's recap the key
Concepts and insights gained during your
exploration of this topic first you
delved into the topic of offensive and
defensive security strategies learning
that offensive security involves the
identification and exploitation of
vulnerabilities in systems while
defensive security focuses on protecting
systems from attacks you zoned in on
penetration testing or ethical hack Ing
and explored how it serves as an
offensive approach to cyber security
ethical hackers use their Knowledge and
Skills to identify vulnerabilities in
systems applications and networks
allowing organizations to implement
necessary fixes and enhance their
overall security during your exploration
of this topic you gained insights into
various testing methods employed by
ethical hackers to achieve their
objectives these methods include Network
penetration testing web application
penetration Testing mobile application
penetration testing and social
engineering testing each of these
techniques focuses on different aspects
of an organization's digital
infrastructure aiming to identify
vulnerabilities and weaknesses that
could be exploited by malicious actors
one key concept you explored is the red
versus blue exercises these exercises
simulate real world scenarios where
ethical hackers known as the red team
attempt to breach system security while
Security Professionals known as The Blue
Team defend it red versus blue exercises
provide a dynamic platform to test
security measures enhance incident
response capabilities and Foster
collaboration between offensive and
defensive teams by engaging in these
exercises organizations can gain
valuable insights into their overall
security posture and identify areas for
improvement delving deeper into the
methodology of penetration testing you
learned about the key stages involved in
the process the first stage is
reconnaissance where ethical hackers
gather information about the target
organization's Network architecture
system configurations and potential
entry points this information serves as
a foundation for subsequent stages and
helps ethical hackers better understand
the target environment the next stage is
enumeration where testers actively probe
the target system identifying open ports
services and user accounts this step
provides insights into the system's
internal components and helps ethical
hackers gain a deeper understanding of
its
vulnerabilities once vulnerabilities are
identified the exploitation stage
follows here ethical hackers attempt to
exploit the vulnerabilities to gain
unauthorized access to the system
emphasizing the potential consequences
that such exploits could have this stage
highlights the importance of addressing
vulnerabilities promptly and effectively
to minimize the risk of security
breaches escalation is the subsequent
stage where ethical hackers aim to
escalate their privileges within the
system by gaining administrative access
and moving freely within the network
ethical hackers mimic the actions of
real attackers helping identify
potential weaknesses in Access Control
and network segmentation the final stage
is reporting and Remediation after
completing the penetration testing
process ethical hackers generate a
comprehensive report detailing the
vulnerabilities discovered their
potential impact and recommended steps
for improving security you also gained
insights into different types of
penetration tests namely blackbox
testing white box testing and gray box
testing blackbox testing is a technique
where you examine the functionality of a
system without having any knowledge of
its internal workings this this approach
focuses on the systems inputs and
outputs mimicking real world attacks
from an external perspective by
employing blackbox testing organizations
can uncover vulnerabilities like
injection attacks cross-site scripting
authentication and authorization flaws
and
misconfiguration in contrast white box
testing provides complete knowledge of
the systems internals with access to the
source code architecture and design
ethical hackers can thoroughly evaluate
the system's internal logic structure
and Pathways white box testing aims to
uncover issues within the code base and
verify the correctness of the
implementation it involves activities
like source code review fuzz testing
static analysis and dynamic
analysis gray box testing represents a
middle ground between black box and
white box testing it provides ethical
hackers with partial knowledge of the
system such as the over all structure or
limited access to specific sections or
modules this enables them to design
focused and efficient tests targeting
specific areas of the system graybox
testing plays a valuable role in
penetration testing allowing for
architecture analysis data flow analysis
API testing and limited code reviews so
this week you've learned that the field
of penetration testing offers
organizations a powerful means of
assessing the robustness and resilience
of their digital systems and you should
be able to describe that by embracing
ethical hacking techniques and employing
various testing methodologies
organizations can identify
vulnerabilities strengthen their
defenses and Safeguard their valuable
data and systems you should now be able
to describe what penetration testing is
and explain how it maintains a strong
security posture ensuring the continued
success of modern-day
businesses imagine you're the owner of a
mult multistory parking garage grappling
with vehicle break-ins you might
mitigate against this Threat by
installing security cameras to monitor
the traffic entering and leaving the
building but what happens when faced
with a Cyber attack like a network
breach of your security camera system
how would you effectively monitor
Network traffic in this scenario a
camera is not an option so what
technology is available to help this is
where intrusion detection and prevention
systems come in
this video will take you through the
concepts various types and components of
intrusion detection and prevention
systems so let's dive in you previously
learned that intrusion detection and
prevention systems or as it's also known
idps are systems that monitor and scan
networks for possible threats to prevent
potential cyber attacks idps plays a
vital role in safeguarding networks and
hosts from unauthorized access misuse
and malicious activities
there are several types of idps each
with its own unique capabilities let's
explore the most common ones now first
network-based idps monitors Network
traffic analyzing packets and
identifying suspicious patterns or
anomalies this type of idps is typically
placed at strategic points it can detect
and prevent various attacks such as dos
attacks Network scanning and
unauthorized access attempts within the
network to capture and analyze all
incoming and outgoing traffic there are
also host-based idps which reside on
individual hosts or servers it monitors
system logs file integrity and
application activities to detect signs
of intrusion or unauthorized access by
analyzing activities at the host level
this type of idps provides an additional
layer of security to protect specific
systems Wireless ID DPS is specifically
designed to secure wireless networks it
detects unauthorized access points
monitors Wireless traffic and identifies
potential threats like Rogue devices or
unauthorized users trying to gain access
with the increasing prevalence of
wireless networks this type of idps is
essential to protect against Wireless
specific attacks each idps is comprised
of several components let's explore some
of the most common ones
first sensors serve as the eyes and ears
of an idps they collect Network traffic
log events and send this data to the
analyzers for analysis sensors can be
placed at key points within the network
to capture and monitor all incoming and
outgoing traffic they provide crucial
data for detecting and preventing
intrusions next are analyzers they
receive data from the sensors and
analyze it using various techniques such
as signature-based detection anomaly
detection or behavior-based detection
they compare incoming data against a
database of known attack patterns or
behavioral baselines to identify
potential threats analyzers play a
critical role in accurately identifying
and alerting security Personnel about
possible intrusions last is the
management consoles which provide a
centralized interface to configure
Monitor and manage the idps security
analysts use these consoles to review
alerts investigate incidents and
fine-tune the idps settings they provide
valuable insights into the Network's
overall security allowing organizations
to make informed decisions about their
security strategy idps is crucial in
today's digital landscape there are
several key reasons for this first early
threat detection idps helps in the early
detection of threats allowing security
teams to respond promptly and mitigate
potential damage by continuously
monitoring Network activities idps can
identify malicious behavior and Alert
security Personnel this early warning
system helps organizations stay one step
ahead of cyber threats next idps acts as
a gatekeeper preventing unauthorized
access to sensitive systems and data it
helps maintain the integrity and
confidentiality of information by
stopping malicious actors before they
can exploit vulnerabilities by
implementing effective idps measures
organizations can significantly reduce
the risk of data breaches and
unauthorized intrusions many Industries
have specific regulations and compliance
requirements to protect customer data
idps assists organizations in meeting
these requirements by providing a robust
security framework and monitoring
mechanism organizations can build trust
with their customers and partners by
demonstrating compliance with industry
regulations idps also plays a crucial
role in incident response by providing
realtime alerts and detailed information
about intrusions idps enables security
teams to respond quickly and effectively
to mitigate the impact of an attack it
aids an incident investigation forensic
analysis and the development of
strategies to prevent future attacks
in conclusion idps is a vital component
of modern cyber security by deploying
the right idps organizations can
significantly enhance their security and
protect their networks and systems from
evolving threats as you discovered in
this video idps have an exceptional
ability to detect and prevent
unauthorized access they provide a
crucial layer of defense against
intrusions and help organizations stay
ahead of cyber criminals
by understanding the components of idps
and recognizing their importance
organizations can make informed
decisions to secure their digital assets
and Safeguard their critical information
imagine sitting at your desk and
browsing the web or accessing a website
if you click a link or submit a request
would you consider the multiple events
occurring behind the scenes this is
where internet packets come in they are
the lifeblood of digital communication
they facilitate the intricate network of
information exchange that most of us use
daily often without even realizing it
these critical components of online
communication are complex multifaceted
entities comprised of several sections
and monitored by security tools like
intrusion detection systems or ids's
let's dive deeper into the specifics of
Internet packets and explore how they
contribute to network security let's
start by exploring the structure of an
Internet packet the first step to
understanding the essence of an Internet
packet is to appreciate its
functionality each internet packet is a
digital carrier pigeon holding a piece
of a larger message internet
communication involves breaking down
data into smaller manageable pieces
called packets this system allows large
volumes of information to travel
seamlessly across networks reassembling
at their final destination to create the
original data inherently the structure
of an Internet packet is divided into
two primary sections the header and the
payload the header of the packet
contains Vital Information concerning
the packet's delivery it's akin to the
envelope of a letter bearing details
such as the source and destination IP
addresses these function as the return
address and delivery address
respectively the header also contains
additional data such as the packet's
total length length identification for
reassembly time to live or TTL which
prevents the packet from circulating
indefinitely and transport protocols
like TCP and UDP the payload on the
other hand is the actual data being
transported essentially it's the letter
inside the envelope the payload size
varies depending on the Network's
maximum transmission unit or MTU if the
data surpasses the MTU it's fragmented
into to multiple packets each with its
own header packets may also have a
trailer used primarily for error
checking the most common technique is
the cyclic redundancy check or CRC which
generates a specific value based on the
packet's contents the receiving system
computes its own CRC and matches it with
the received one discarding the packet
if discrepancies are found as essential
as the packet system is the internet
functionality it's equally attract AC
active to malicious cyber activities
where intrusion detection tools come
into play intrusion detection systems or
IDs serve as the cyber security
industry's Frontline defense against
potential threats they monitor detect
and alert Network administrators of
suspicious activities within internet
traffic a core aspect of this involves
scanning internet packets intrusion
detection tools function using two
primary methodologies signature-based
and anomaly based detection
signature-based ids's monitor Network
traffic for specific patterns or
signatures associated with known threats
like a digital most wanted list these
systems have a database of existing
threat signatures the IDS triggers an
alert upon identifying matching patterns
within packet headers or payloads in
contrast anomally based IDs operates
using machine learning to define a
normal Baseline of network Behavior a
network Baseline refers to a collection
of standard measurements that indicate
typical performance levels any events or
alerts that occur while these parameters
are in effect essentially capture a
moment in time view of what is
considered normal operations by
establishing this Baseline Engineers are
better equipped to identify unusual
patterns in network traffic such
anomalies could manifest a significant
deviations from the established Baseline
and may signal a range of issues from
security breaches and Hardware
malfunctions to application performance
problems or even just an authorized user
downloading a sizable file this means
that a deviation from the network
Baseline indicative of a possible threat
prompts an alert this method can detect
new unidentified threats as their
unusual behavior contrasts with the
established normal monitoring packets
involves deep packet inspection or DPI
where an IDs examines the content of
individual packets DPI can include
checking packet headers to verify source
and destination IP addresses and
inspecting packet payloads for known
malicious signatures or abnormal data
patterns by scanning and analyzing
packet data in real time ids's play a
crucial role in identifying and
preventing potential cyber threats
however the analysis of encrypted data
presents a challenge as additional ids's
may not access the payload making it
difficult to detect intrusion intrusion
detection is an ongoing process that
adapts to new threats and technological
developments as dependence on digital
communication continues to grow so does
the importance of understanding and
protecting the packet-based systems that
facilitate this interaction in
conclusion internet packets are
fundamental to the networked World they
consist of various sections each serving
a specific purpose in ensuring smooth
efficient data transmission as you
discovered in this video intrusion
detection tools tirelessly monitor these
packets scanning their various
components to detect and prevent
potential intrusions safeguarding the
Integrity of digital
Communications imagine you're an
employee of an organization that
operates in multiple locations worldwide
each of these locations runs its
machines and applications virtually
through the cloud while centrally
there's an IT team responsible for
managing the security of these locations
but how can this team oversee cyber
security for all of these locations
devices and applications this is where
Azure firewall premium intrusion
detection and prevention systems come in
in this video you'll discover how it
works and explore its various benefits
and capabilities Azure firewall premium
idps is a cloud-based intrusion
detection and prevention system that
helps you protect your Azure resources
from malicious traffic to achieve this
idps employs signature-based detection
which can also be used to identify zero
day threats newly discovered threats
more commonly known as zero day threats
are the first instance of a particular
threat to be found Azure firewall
premium idps works by inspecting Network
traffic that flows through your Azure
firewall the firewall looks for patterns
that match known attack signatures and
it can also be configured to detect
specific types of traffic such as
traffic from known malicious IP
addresses or traffic that uses specific
ports if Azure firewall premium idps
detects a malicious traffic pattern it
can take one of two actions it can alert
as your firewall premium idps will log
the event and send you an alert or deny
Azure firewall premium idps will block
the traffic from reaching your Azure
resources the idps signatures are
updated regularly so you can be
confident that your Azure resources are
protected from the latest threats now
that you understand how Azure firewall
premium idps Works let's focus on its
benefits firstly it increases security
by helping you protect your Azure
resources from a wide range of malicious
traffic next it reduces false positives
Azure firewall premium idps uses
signature-based detection which means
that it is less likely to generate false
positives than other types of idps
solutions it also offers centralized
management through the Azure portal so
you can easily configure and monitor it
from a single location and lastly
scalability Azure firewall premium idps
can scale to meet the needs of your
growing Network configuring the Azure
firewall premium idps can be completed
by creating an idps policy an idps
policy defines the types of traffic you
want to Monitor and the actions you want
Azure firewall premium idps to take when
it detects malicious traffic you can
create an idps policy using the Azure
portal or the Azure CLI once you've
created an idps policy you can assign it
to your Azure firewall idps policy
consists of the following elements
firstly traffic types you can specify
the types of traffic that you want to
monitor for example you can specify that
you want to monitor traffic from known
malicious IP addresses or traffic that
uses specific ports next actions you can
specify the actions that you want Azure
firewall premium idps to take when it
detects malicious traffic for example
you can specify that you want Azure
firewall premium idps to log the event
or block the traffic and lastly rule
priority specifying the priority of the
rules in the idps policy determines the
order in which the rules are evaluated
in addition to configuring Azure
firewall premium idps also logs all of
the events that it detects you can use
these logs to monitor your network
traffic and investigate suspicious
activity you can view Azure firewall
premium idps logs in the Azure portal or
using the Azure CLI the logs include the
following information the type of event
that was detected this could be a
malicious traffic pattern a denied
connection or a warning the source and
destination of the traffic this
information can help you to identify the
source of the attack the ports that were
used this information can help you to
identify the type of attack the time and
date of the event this information can
help help you to track the attack over
time Azure firewall premium idps is a
powerful tool that helps you protect
your Azure resources for malicious
traffic this video demonstrated how easy
it is to configure and use and how it
provides increased security and reduced
false positives compared to other idps
solutions by leveraging signature-based
detection and regular updates to the
attack signatures Azure firewall premium
idps keeps your resources safe you also
discovered how configuring Azure
Fireball premium idps involves creating
an idps policy that defines the types of
traffic to Monitor and the actions to
take when malicious traffic is detected
monitoring and analyzing idps logs allow
you to track network activity
investigate suspicious events and
identify the source and type of attacks
with centralized management and
scalability aure firewall premium idps
offers a comprehensive solution for
safeguarding your Azure Resources by
leveraging its capabilities you can
ensure the security and integrity of
your network infrastructure by now you
know that Azure firewall premium idps is
a cloud-based intrusion detection and
prevention system that helps you protect
your Azure resources from malicious
traffic now it's time to explore how
this works in practice in this video you
will learn how to create an azure idps s
and how to activate the rules within an
idps to create an Azure idps you first
have to get into the Azure premium
firewall to do this type in firewall in
the search bar then select it from the
search result then to create an idps
select create now let's provide the
necessary details for the idps creation
Begin by selecting the correct
subscription and then create a new
Resource Group name for this
demonstration let's call it FW
rg1 next within the instance details you
name the firewall for this instance
let's call it premium
dfw1 Now select your region and
availability Zone as this is not a
production idps let's leave the
availability Zone as none let's also
ensure the firewall skew is selected as
premium Now within firewall policy let's
create a new policy by selecting add new
and give it the name premium Das
firewall policy 1 now select a region
and policy tier as premium and select
okay now let's create a new virtual
Network give it a name vet and keep the
address space default at
10.0.0.0
sl16 and then assign an address to the
Azure firewall subnet as 10.0
0.0.0
sl24 now you can create an IP for the
public address called premium firewall
ip1 and select okay once you've reviewed
everything select review plus create
after it's validated and everything is
okay the create button becomes active go
ahead now and select create to deploy
the
firewall it may take a moment to
deploy once the deployment is completed
you can select go to Resource to access
the Azure firewall premium Now select
the firewall policy to review the
connected policy for working on
ipds now to review the policy options
select idps in the sidebar the first tab
relates to the ipds mode it is not
enabled by default but you can activate
it by choosing alert to receive alerts
for harmful traffic or alert and deny to
block the traffic and receive alerts
when deploying it's recommended to test
the configuration with alert mode
enabled once fully tested you can switch
to alert and deny for this demonstration
let's choose alert mode now let's move
on to the second tab called Signature
roles this tab has all the active rules
that are connected to this policy within
the third tab you will locate the pr
private IP range these ranges help to
identify inbound and outbound traffic if
you want to make any changes to your
private IP range select the edit button
you can also remove any range that's not
relevant to your
organization finally the fourth tab is
the bypass list here you can add
specific IP addresses to designate them
as safe
zones once added the idps won't filter
any traffic ranges or subnets associated
with those IP
addresses great once you've reviewed all
the settings and double checked your
choices just select apply and wait while
the updates get uploaded to the brand
new firewall just keep in mind that it
might take a couple of minutes so be
patient deploying the Azure premium
firewall and policy takes a massive step
towards protecting your organization and
increasing their cyber security in this
helpful video you learned how to create
an Azure ipds and how to activate the
rules within an
idps in this video you'll explore two
types of intrusion detection including
Network intrusion detection and
host-based intrusion detection you'll
also discover how Sam Scoops employs
idps to protect its operations and learn
about the vital role it plays in
securing Network infrastructure and
critical assets Sam Scoops relies on a
robust network-based IDP s to safeguard
its Network infrastructure this powerful
system is responsible for a multitude of
crucial tasks including detecting and
mitigating against distributed denial of
service or dos attacks ensuring the
company's online ordering systems remain
accessible and
uninterrupted Additionally the
network-based idps provides valuable
insights into Network traffic patterns
enabling Sam Scoops to identify
potential anomalies and take appropriate
action this realtime monitoring ensures
the integrity and security of their
Network environment sem scooops also
employs host-based idps to enhance its
security posture further this
specialized system focuses on protecting
its critical servers and end points by
reviewing code and static analysis it
can identify potential vulnerabilities
in the software additionally it
guarantees that any efforts to gain
unauthorized access are thwarted and
that the system's Integrity is preserved
but what attacks could happen to
organizations like Sam Scoops in the
real world that could trigger its idps
let's explore several scenarios and the
response and actions you can take to
prevent them first up are DOs attacks
which you discovered earlier are
malicious attempts to disrupt the
Network Services of a Target to detect a
Dos attack a host-based idps monitors
Network traffic for sudden increases in
volume or patterns associated with DOs
attacks the idps then activates dos
mitigation techniques such as traffic
filtering rate limiting and diverting
traffic to absorb the attack and
collaborates with internet service
providers to block malicious traffic and
lastly the idps blocks the IP address
associated with the suspicious traffic
this is the most appropriate action in
response to a Dos attack alert by
blocking the IP address address you can
prevent malicious traffic from
overwhelming the network and ensure
uninterrupted availability of online
systems next up is Access Control policy
violation which could allow unauthorized
users to access restricted Resources by
ensuring you adhere to access control
policies you will be able to detect
access violations if a violation does
occur ensure you notify and escalate the
security incident to the appropriate
personnel for further analysis and
response and lastly Implement Network
segmentation and traffic isolation to
minimize the impact of any compromised
systems you could also have anomalies in
network traffic patterns you can detect
anomalies and potential security threats
by analyzing Network traffic patterns
it's also vital to generate realtime
alerts for Network administrators to
investigate and respond to potential
threats promptly then then ensure you
enhance your network security by
implementing intrusion prevention
systems deploying patches and updates
and strengthening Network device
configurations next up is fishing
attacks fishing attacks can be detected
by implementing email filtering scanning
for suspicious links and attachments and
monitoring for unusual email patterns or
domain spoofing in response to fishing
attacks you should educate your
organization's users further and block
malicious email senders remove malicious
emails from user inboxes and Report
incidents to appropriate authorities you
can decrease the risk of fishing attacks
by implementing multiactor
authentication for email accounts
conducting simulated fishing exercises
to train users and enhancing Email
encryption protocols you could also have
malware infections idps along with
antivirus software and endpoint Security
Solutions to detect and quarantine
militia software always ensure you
initiate the malware removal process
update security software and Patch all
vulnerabilities to prevent further
infections lastly reduce future risks by
conducting a systemwide scan to ensure
complete malware removal implementing
application whitelisting prevents
unauthorized software executions you can
also implement sandboxing or
containerization for suspicious files
last up is Rogue access point which is a
wireless access point that has been
installed on a secure network without
authorization by actively scanning the
network you can identify unauthorized
access points you should also ensure
that any unauthorized access is
immediately alerted to the IT team and
finally track down to locate and disable
the Rogue access point this will
strengthen your organization's security
measures overall the idps solutions
implemented at Sam Scoops help to ensure
the security and integrity of its
Network infrastructure critical assets
and wireless networks this enables the
company to protect its systems data and
customer information from potential
threats and attacks in conclusion idps
plays a vital role in the success and
security of modern businesses like Sam
Scoops whether it's protecting against
Doos attacks blocking unauthorized
access attempts or detecting and
preventing malware infections idps
ensures a secure network environment
with network-based host-based and
wireless idps Solutions in place Sam
Scoops remains one step ahead of
potential threats allowing them to
continue delighting their customers
while maintaining the highest standards
of security as organizations
increasingly Embrace cloud computing and
migrate their infrastructure to to
Microsoft Azure the need for robust
security measures becomes Paramount in
this video you will explore Advanced
Techniques for Designing and
implementing firewall strategies to
secure your Azure environment before
delving into the technical aspects it is
essential to understand why firewall
design is crucial in Azure a
well-designed firewall serves as a
critical barrier protecting your
valuable resources from unauthorized
access while enabling legitimate traffic
to flow security it goes beyond just
creating rules it considers factors such
as scalability high availability and
compliance requirements to ensure
comprehensive security for your Azure
environment let's explore some of the
key design principles an effective
firewall design in Azure helps Safeguard
your resources from various cyber
threats including unauthorized access
attempts denial of service attacks
malware viruses and potential data
breaches by establishing robust security
measures you can mitigate potential
risks and prevent security breaches a
well-thought-out firewall design can
significantly impact the performance and
scalability of your Azure environment by
efficiently segmenting your network and
controlling traffic flow you can reduce
the volume of unnecessary traffic
passing through the firewall this
optimization frees up resources leading
to improved performance and better
scalability managing security across an
Azure environment can be complex a
well-designed firewall strategy ensures
consistency in rules and policies
simplifying the management and
enforcement of security measures this
consistent approach saves time and
minimizes the risk of human errors
another critical component of firewall
design is the network topology Network
topology plays a pivotal role in the
overall security performance and
manageability of resources in an Azure
environment let's explore some common
Network topologies and their
significance The Hub and spoke Network
topology is a popular design that
centralizes Network Services in a hub
virtual Network while connecting it to
spoke virtual networks containing the
resources this architecture allows for
better control security and traffic
monitoring by funneling all the traffic
through the Hub
virtual Network peering enables direct
communication between virtual networks
this facilitates resource sharing while
maintaining isolation and control
between the interconnected networks this
topology is useful when you need to
establish connectivity between distinct
environments while keeping them separate
by using private endpoints the Azure
firewall can be integrated into a
virtual Network ensuring that traffic to
and from the firewall remains within the
Azure backbone Network this design
provides additional security by
eliminating public internet exposure for
the firewall now let's touch on another
essential aspect of firewall design
traffic
segmentation traffic segmentation adds
an extra layer of security to the Azure
environment by dividing the network into
segments and controlling the traffic
flow between them you can prevent
lateral movement of threats and reduce
the attack surface some effect active
techniques for traffic segmentation
include service tags application rules
and network security groups or nsgs
Azure service tags help Define and group
Azure resources based on their roles and
access requirements by creating
application rules you can specify what
traffic is allowed to access specific
resources tightly controlling
communication within the environment
network security groups act as virtual
firewalls at the network interface or
subnet level they allow you to filter
Network traffic to and from resources
based on rules you define nsgs provide
granular control over inbound and
outbound traffic ensuring only
authorized communication when designing
your firewall strategy considering High
availability and Disaster Recovery is
vital to ensure continuous operation and
minimal downtime in case of unforeseen
events let's explore some best practices
in this area deploying resources across
multiple availability zones provides
redundancy and false tolerance this
approach ensures that even if one zone
experiences a failure the services will
remain available in other zones
improving overall availability Azure
firewall premium is a higher tier option
that offers built-in High availability
with a service level agreement or SLA by
using this service you ensure that the
firewall remains available even during
plan maintenance or unexpected failures
this video introduced Advanced
Techniques for Designing and
implementing firewall strategies in
Microsoft Azure a well-designed firewall
is your first line of defense against
cyber threats protecting your Azure
resources and data from unauthorized
access and malicious activities by
considering factors like Network
topologies traffic segmentation and high
availability you can build a robust
secure and high-performing Azure
environment remember that security is an
ongoing process it is essential to
regularly review and update your
firewall design to adapt to emerging
threats and evolving business
needs creating a secure and resilient
Azure environment is a shared
responsibility between you and Microsoft
Azure stay informed about the latest
security features and best practices to
ensure that your firewall design aligns
with industry standards and provides a
strong defense against potential threats
with a well-planned and implemented
firewall strategy you can confidently
harness the full potential of Microsoft
Azure while maintaining a secure and
protected Cloud
environment designing and configuring
effective firewall rules for your Azure
environment lays a strong foundation for
network security let's take it a step
further and delve into the advanced
features of Azure firewall in this video
you will explore how to design and
configure effective firewall rules
you'll also come to understand the
significance of rule priorities and
learn how to utilize Azure firewalls
Advanced features for application Level
filtering let's start by learning about
designing effective firewall rules
setting rule priorities lets you control
the order in which the rules are applied
by Azure firewall for instance imagine
you have two rules in your Azure
firewall one that allows secure socket
shell or SSH traffic from specific IP
addresses and another that denies all
incoming traffic to ensure that the deny
rule takes precedence over the allow
rule you need to set the deny rules
priority higher than the allow rules
priority next let's explore rule types
Azure firewall offers two main types of
rules Network rules and application
rules Network rules are based on IP
addresses ports and
protocols for instance you might want to
allow inbound traffic from a specific IP
address range like
192.168.0.0 sl24 to access a web server
running on Port
80 in that case you would create a
Network rule that permits traffic from
the specified IP address address range
to the destination IP address of your
web server on Port
80 application rules on the other hand
are based on fully qualified domain
names or
fqdns imagine you have a backend API
service hosted in Azure and want to
allow only specific external fqdns to
access in this scenario you would create
an application rule that permits traffic
to the fqdns of the allow external
services and deny all other traffic now
let's talk about how rule conditions can
Empower you to achieve even more precise
control over your network traffic
picture this scenario you have a virtual
Network or vnet in Azure with multiple
subnets and you want to allow
communication between certain subnets
while blocking traffic to others in this
case you would set up Network rules with
specific source and destination IP
address ranges to achieve granular
control over the flow of traffic moving
on to configuring rule collections
imagine you have an application running
in Azure you want the application to
communicate with an on-premise database
server using a specific Port like TCP
Port
1433 in this case you would create a
Network rule collection to allow
outbound traffic from the application
subnet to the IP address of the database
server on on Port
1433 now let's say you have a web
application hosted in Azure that needs
to access specific external services
like apis and databases through their
fqdns in this scenario you would create
an application rule collection to allow
outbound traffic from the web
application to the fqdns of the approved
external services having explored the
various rule types and configurations
it's time to delve deeper into Azure
firewalls Advanced features let's say
you want to enhance your Azure firewall
security by blocking traffic from known
malicious IP addresses here's where
threat intelligence-based filtering
fulfills an important role by enabling
this feature and integrating Azure
firewall with threat intelligence feeds
you can automatically block traffic from
these malicious sources this additional
layer of security helps fortify your
network against potential threats and
authorized access next let's consider a
situation where you have multiple Azure
Services deployed in your virtual
Network to facilitate seamless
communication between these services
without having to create individual
application rules you can leverage Azure
firewall application fqdn tags an fqdn
tag represents a group of fully
qualified domain names associated with
well-known Microsoft Services these tags
are pre defined for common Azure
Services simplifying rule management and
streamlining traffic between Azure
services with ease by implementing the
Knowledge and Skills gained in this
video you are better equipped to secure
your Azure Network effectively
safeguarding your valuable resources
from potential threats remember to
continually Monitor and update your
firewall rules as your network evolves
security is an ongoing process and
staying proactive is key to maintaining
a robust defense against cyber
threats network security groups are the
basic building blocks of network
security in Azure they act as a virtual
firewall that controls inbound and
outbound traffic to network interfaces
subnets or virtual machines based on
userdefined rules Azure firewall on the
other hand is a cloud-based network
security service that provides highlevel
security to protect your Azure virtual
network resources
it allows you to create and enforce
connectivity policies for applications
and resources in your Azure environment
combining network security groups or
nsgs and Azure firewall provides a
robust security Solution by allowing
granular control over Network traffic
this video will cover the design
considerations for this integration
helping you to optimize network security
and performance in Azure the integration
of network security groups and Azure
firewall brings several benefits such as
centralized network security management
application Level filtering and enhanced
traffic inspection now let's explore how
to set up this integration the first
step is to design the network
architecture and identify the different
subnets and network interfaces that
require security restrictions this is
essential to ensure the traffic flows
efficiently through the system while
maintaining a secure
environment next next you will need to
configure NSG rules to allow or deny
specific types of traffic to your
network interfaces or subnets these
rules will act as the first line of
defense filtering traffic based on
source and destination IP addresses
ports and protocols with the NSG rules
in place it's time to implement Azure
firewall this managed service will
provide additional security layers by
inspecting and filtering traffic based
on application rules Network rules and
threat intelligence now that you have
gone through the steps of Designing the
network architecture configuring NSG
rules and implementing Azure firewall
it's important to consider some critical
design considerations for successful
integration when integrating nsgs with
Azure firewall rule prioritization is
crucial NSG rules are evaluated before
Azure firewall rules therefore you must
carefully plan the order of rules to
ensure that traffic is processed
according to your security
requirements overlapping rules between
nsgs and Azure firewall can lead to
unexpected Behavior it's essential to
avoid conflicts by clearly defining the
responsibilities of each security layer
logging and monitoring are vital aspects
of any security setup by enabling
logging on both nsgs and Azure firewall
you can gain valuable insights into
Network traffic p patterns and potential
security threats with these design
considerations in mind let's explore how
the integration of network security
groups and Azure firewall can further
optimize Network traffic flow Azure
firewall's application aware filtering
allows you to Define rules based on
specific applications and services
enabling granular control over allowed
and denied traffic this enhances
security and ensures that only necessary
traffic is allowed to better understand
the Practical implications of this
powerful integration let's explore some
real world examples imagine you have a
web application running on Azure and you
want to restrict access to specific IP
addresses by combining nsgs and Azure
firewall you can create a layered
defense nsgs can block traffic from
unwanted IP addresses at the network
level while Azure firewall filters HTTP
and http s traffic based on application
rules protecting your web application
from potential threats in a multi-tier
application you may have different
subnets with varying security
requirements nsgs can be configured to
allow communication between specific
subnets while Azure firewall adds an
extra layer of protection by monitoring
traffic between these subnets and
enforcing additional security policies
the integration of network security
groups and Azure firewall is a
GameChanger for network security in
Microsoft Azure by thoughtfully
designing your network architecture
configuring rules and leveraging the
capabilities of both tools you can
achieve unparalleled network security
and optimize traffic flow remember to
consider rule
prioritization avoid overlapping rules
and enable logging and monitoring to
proactively address potential
threats appoint to site VPN Gateway
connection is an essential tool that
enables individual client computers to
establish a secure connection with a
virtual Network in the cloud it enables
secure reliable and efficient
connections from remote locations to
Azure virtual networks also known as
vets or on premises data centers in this
video you'll delve into this crucial
element of the network architecture and
learn the key features and benefits of a
pointto site VPN Gateway connection
along with an explanation of how it
works to begin let's explore the key
features of a pointto sight VPN Gateway
connection first let's examine the
security and encryption features point
to site VPN Gateway provides a secure
connection between the client computer
and the virtual Network by employing the
secure sockets layer or SSL or Internet
Protocol security also known as IPC this
feature ensures that all data
transmitted between the two points is
encrypted and safe from potential
attackers another feature is scalability
and elasticity point to sight VPN
Gateway allows a large number of
concurrent connections which means many
remote users can connect to the virtual
Network at the same time Azure allows up
to 10,000 concurrent pointto side
connections per Gateway offering
substantial flexibility and scalability
for businesses of varying sizes the next
feature of a point to sight VPN is
authentication it supports both Azure
certificate authentication and radius
authentication providing diverse and
robust methods for verifying the
identities of client computers trying to
establish a connection another feature
is multiple platform
support point to sight VPN connections
are supported on various operating
systems including Windows Mac OS and
Linux
this enables a diverse range of devices
to securely connect to the virtual
Network and finally another feature is
integration with Azure
Services pointto site connections can be
integrated seamlessly with other Azure
services such as Azure active directory
and can access all services hosted
within the virtual Network including
Azure virtual machines or VMS and cloud
services next let's examine the benefits
of a pointto sight VPN Gateway
connection the first benefit is secure
remote access pointto sight VPN provides
secure remote access from anywhere with
an internet connection it ensures that
sensitive data is protected during
transmission between the client and the
server a key consideration in today's
increasingly mobile and Global
Workforce secondly there's ease of use
pointto sight connections do not require
a VPN device
unlike sight to site or S2s
connections this makes it a more
straightforward and accessible solution
for individual users who can use native
VPN clients on their devices to connect
to the network the next benefit is
flexibility the point to site VPN
Gateway enables users to connect to the
network from any location for businesses
with a distributed Workforce or for
employees who travel frequently this can
prove especially useful and finally it
is
costeffective with no need for expensive
Hardware the pointto sight VPN Gateway
is a coste effective solution it enables
businesses to provide remote access to
their networks without significant
investments in infrastructure now that
you are aware of the key features and
benefits of a pointto sight VPN Gateway
connection let's delve into how it
enables connection to Azure vets or on
premises data centers when an individual
ual client computer attempts to
establish a pointto sight VPN connection
the process is initiated with the
client's VPN software this software
presents the certificate for
authentication to the Azure VPN Gateway
once the Azure VPN Gateway verifies the
authenticity of the certificate it sets
up a secure and encrypted SSL IPC tunnel
with the client through this secure
tunnel the client can send and receive
data to and from the ver virtual Network
or on premises data center securely
essentially the client is virtually on
the network able to access all resources
as though it was physically present
within the network this allows employees
or stakeholders to access data or
services from anywhere in the world if
they have a valid certificate and a
stable internet connection in this video
you learned that a point to site VPN
Gateway connection is a valuable
networking solution that allows secure
efficient and reliable connections to
Azure virtual networks or on premises
data centers from any location you've
also explored how its features and
benefits make it an ideal choice for
businesses seeking to maintain data
security while providing flexible and
coste effective remote access
Solutions previously you learned about
the concept of virtual Network gateways
you examined different Gateway types and
the various VP PN connection
configurations in this video you'll gain
insight into how Azure VPN can help your
business you'll explore the key benefits
of azure VPN examine its various use
cases across multiple Industries and
learn important details about VPN
gateways let's begin by examining the
numerous benefits Azure VPN provides for
businesses of all sizes and industries
the first benefit of azure VPN is secure
connectivity by utilizing izing industry
standard encryption protocols Azure VPN
ensures that your data remains protected
as it travels between your on premises
networks and
Azure this includes safeguarding the
confidentiality and integrity of your
data providing you with peace of mind
another significant advantage of azure
VPN is its scalability you have the
flexibility to add or remove VPN
gateways as per your requirements
Additionally you can easily adjust the
connection bandwidth to accommodate your
evolving needs this scalability feature
allows your connectivity to grow
alongside your business finally Azure
VPN provides Global reach with its
availability in over a 100 regions
worldwide this means that regardless of
where your business is located you can
connect seamlessly to Azure from
anywhere across the globe This Global
reach ensures that your business can
access Azure Services no matter where
you operate now that we understand the
benefits of azure VPN let's explore some
specific use cases across various
Industries the following scenarios
demonstrate how you can leverage Azure
VPN to enhance operations improve
efficiency and secure data in different
sectors in the retail industry Azure VPN
has several use cases let's explore a
few of them firstly it facilitates the
connection of retail stores to a central
data center enabling seamless access to
shareed data and applications this
streamlines operations enhances
efficiency and reduces costs secondly it
enables Remote Management of point of
sale systems in retail stores IT staff
can troubleshoot problems and make
necessary changes without physically
visiting each store location this Remote
Management capability enhances
operational agility saves time and
allows for prompt issue
resolution finally it provides secure
connect activity to e-commerce platforms
and inventory management systems common
azure-based applications used in the
retail industry this secure connectivity
enhances the performance of these
applications and safeguards sensitive
retail data it ensures that authorized
Personnel can access critical
applications while maintaining data
integrity and
confidentiality now let's examine the
healthc care industry where Azure VPN
offers some valuable use cases let's
explore a couple of examples firstly it
enables secure connectivity for tele
medicine platforms and remote patient
monitoring systems this allows healthc
Care Professionals to remotely access
patient data collaborate on diagnosis
and provide virtual
care this ensures timely and efficient
Health Care delivery while maintaining
patient privacy and data security
secondly it facilitates secure
connections between hospitals and
research institutions this enables
researchers to access patient data for
studies clinical trials and Analysis
with a seamless exchange of data this
secure connectivity promotes
collaboration and advances medical
research in the financial services
industry Azure VPN also plays a crucial
role let's explore a couple of examples
it enables secure remote access for
banking employees allowing them to
securely connect to the organization's
Network and access critical Financial
systems and customer data data this
ensures that employees can work remotely
while maintaining the highest levels of
data security and
confidentiality secondly it facilitates
secure interconnectivity between Bank
branches and the headquarters this
enables seamless access to centralized
banking systems databases and customer
information ensuring efficient
operations and reliable data
transmission Azure VPN also offers
valuable use cases in the manufactur ing
industry let's explore a couple of
examples firstly it enables secure
connectivity for managing Supply
chains this allows manufacturers to
securely connect with suppliers
Distributors and Logistics Partners this
secure connectivity enhances
collaboration improves visibility into
the supply chain and ensures the secure
transfer of sensitive data secondly it
enables secure remote monitoring and
predictive maintenance of manufacturing
equipment
this allows realtime data transmission
from machines to the cloud facilitating
proactive maintenance reducing downtime
and optimizing production
efficiency finally Azure VPN offers
valuable use cases in the education
industry let's explore a couple of
examples firstly it enables secure
connectivity for remote learning
platforms and virtual classrooms this
ensures that students teachers and
administrators can securely access
educational resources collaborate in
real time and participate in Virtual
learning
environments secondly it facilitates
secure interconnectivity between
different campuses of educational
institutions and their administrative
offices this enables seamless access to
centralized systems student information
databases and other resources promoting
efficient Administration and secure data
transmission now let's shift our Focus
to VPN Gateway
an essential component of azure VPN when
setting up a virtual Network in Azure
it's important to note that the virtual
Network itself is free of charge however
you should be aware that there's a cost
associated with the VPN Gateway that
connects your on premises Network and
other virtual networks within Azure this
cost is based on the duration of the VPN
gateways provisioning and availability
in this video you explored the key
benefits of azure VPN including secure
connectivity scalability and Global
reach you also examine specific use
cases across various Industries
demonstrating how Azure VPN can enhance
operations secure data and improve
efficiency lastly you delved into an
important detail about VPN gateways and
the cost associated with their setup by
leveraging Azure VPN businesses can
establish secure and reliable
connectivity between their on premises
networks and Azure unlocking a world of
possibilities for their operations and
growth the insights you gained by
watching this video will help you to
leverage Azure vpns across multiple
Industries in your cyber security
career by now you know that businesses
use Virtual private networks or VPN
gateways to facilitate secure access
between remote employees and data or
applications on the internet it
essentially encrypts data transfers to
prevent sensitive information from being
leaked such as user identities or access
credentials it also creates one network
stream that is shared between multiple
business locations so it lends itself to
Growing businesses requiring a safe
scalable solution however configuring
vpns may appear daunting because setting
this up incorrectly May expose
information that can lead to cyber
attacks causing damage in this video
you'll discover how to configure vpns
and Microsoft Azure specifically you'll
focus on the different options available
for deploying a VPN the key components
involved and how to configure security
protocols let's begin to unpack the
essential components that you need to
configure a VPN to configure a VPN on
Azure you need three key components the
first component is an Azure virtual
Network which acts as the foundation for
your resources in the cloud next you
require an on premises Network work that
represents your existing infrastructure
outside of azure and finally a VPN
Gateway serves as the bridge between
these two networks to allow
communication that's secure let's
examine these components in more detail
to begin let's explore the Azure virtual
Network within the Azure portal you can
create and manage virtual networks
effortlessly these virtual networks
enable you to logically isolate and
segment your resources in Azure just
like you would with traditional on
premises networks you'll cover this in
more detail a bit later now an on
premises Network refers to your existing
Network infrastructure outside of azure
this may be an office Network or a data
center it's important to have a VPN
device or software on your on premises
Network to establish a secure connection
with Azure this device or software is
responsible for encrypting and
decrypting the traffic between the on
premises Network and the Azure virtual
Network finally let's examine the VPN
Gateway component of an Azure VPN the
VPN Gateway provides a managed VPN
solution that enables secure
communication between your on premises
Network and the Azure virtual Network it
acts as the Gateway for data
transmission ensuring that the traffic
flows securely and efficiently Azure
offers different types of VPN gateways
to cater to various networking scenarios
this allows you to select the best
suited VPN Gateway for your needs the
first VPN Gateway option connects to a
virtual Network also known as vnet to
vnet another available option connects
to an on-premises Network commonly
referred to as site to site and a
pointto site VPN Gateway enables secure
connections from Individual devices to
the Azure virtual Network now it's time
to walk through the steps of configuring
a VPS and Azure Begin by creating a VPN
Gateway within your Azure virtual
Network this Gateway acts as the Anchor
Point for your VPN connections the next
step is to configure the connection
between your VPN Gateway and your on
premises Network device or software at
this point in the configuration you need
to define the IP addresses encryption
protocols and authentication mechanisms
it's important to be aware of this for
now but you'll explore these steps in
detail a bit later
a crucial part of configuring a VPN is
ensuring that data transmitted via the
communication channel is secure and
encrypted this avoids data exposure and
mitigates the risk of potential cyber
threats the component that the VPN
Gateway uses to secure the communication
Channel over the Internet is known as
Internet Protocol security tunnels or
IPC tunnels IPC is a suite of protocols
designed to ensure the confidentiality
integrity and authenticity of data
transmitted between your VPN Gateway in
Azure and your on premises device or
software when setting up a VPN on Azure
you establish IPC tunnels to create a
protected pathway for your data these
tunnels act as virtual pipes
encapsulating your data and encrypting
it before it traverses the public
internet this encryption guarantees that
even if someone intercepts the data it
remains indecipherable and shielded so
how does want establish an IPC tunnel to
do this both ends of the VPN connection
must exchange encryption Keys these keys
are used to encrypt and decrypt the data
packets adding an additional layer of
security by doing so only the intended
recipient can decipher the data ensuring
its confidentiality throughout the
transmission in addition to
confidentiality IPC also verifies the
integrity and authenticity of the
transmitted data each data packet within
the IPC tunnel contains a cryptographic
check sum referred to as a hash the hash
allows the receiving end to verify that
the data hasn't been tampered with
during Transit this feature provides
reassurance that the data remains intact
and hasn't been modified or compromised
IPC also includes authentication
mechanisms that establish the identity
of the communicating parties when
configuring a VPN on Azure you need to
to Define authentication protocols like
pre-shared keys or digital certificates
to validate the authenticity of both the
VPN Gateway and the on premises device
or software this Mutual authentication
ensures that both ends of the connection
can trust each other and prevents
unauthorized access while maintaining
the overall security of the
VPN so be sure to utilize ipack tunnels
to establish a robust and secure VPN
infrastructure on azure
it provides you with a peace of mind
that the necessary encryption
verification and authentication
mechanisms enable your VPN to function
effectively and your data remains safe
with ipsec at the core of your VPN
configuration you can confidently
explore the vast potential of azure
while maintaining the trust and privacy
of your network communication you can
monitor the VPN connection status within
the Azure portal once the configuration
is complete complete in this video you
unpacked the key components required to
configure a VPN namely the Azure virtual
Network the on premises Network and the
VPN Gateway furthermore you learned that
using IPC tunnels in your configuration
ensures that your data is encrypted when
transmitted via the communication
Channel between the UN premises Network
and the Azure virtual
Network imagine having a remote
Workforce that needs to securely access
your organization's Azure virtual
Network however without a reliable
solution they face difficulties
establishing a secure connection from
their individual computers to Azure this
not only hampers productivity but also
puts your company at risk since you only
have a few clients requiring access a
sight tosite VPN solution is Impractical
what you need is a secure and efficient
solution that allows your telecommuters
to connect to Azure from anywhere that's
where pointto sight VPN comes in
offering a convenient and cost-effective
way for your telecommuters to connect
securely over the next few minutes
you'll learn more about what pointto
sight VPN is the protocols it uses and
how clients are authenticated with a
pointto sight VPN Gateway connection you
can establish a secure connection to
your virtual Network directly from an
individual client computer unlike a
sight to sight VPN which requires
configuring connections on both ends a
pointto sight connection is initiated
from the client computer itself this
provides flexibility and convenience for
your remote workers to connect to Azure
securely when it comes to pointto sight
VPN there are several protocols that can
be used openvpn protocol is an SSL
tls-based VPN protocol a TLS VPN
solution can penetrate firewalls since
most firewalls open TCP port P 443
outbound which TLS uses openvpn can be
used to connect from Android iOS
versions 11 and above Windows Linux and
Mac devices with Mac OS versions 10.13
and above secure socket tunneling
protocol or sstp for short is a
proprietary tls-based VPN protocol sstp
is also a TLS VPN solution which can
penetrate most firewalls since most
firewalls open TCP Port 443
outbound sstp is only supported on
Windows devices Azure supports all
versions of Windows that have sstp and
support TLS 1.2 including Windows 8.1
and later versions Ike V2 VPN is a
standards based IPC VPN solution I V2
VPN can be used to connect from Mac
devices including Mac OS versions 10 11
and above before Azure accepts a point
to site VPN connection the user has to
be authenticated first there are two
mechanisms that Azure offers to
authenticate a connecting user the first
is certificate authentication when using
the native Azure certificate
authentication a client certificate
present on the device is used to
authenticate the connecting user client
certificates are generated from a
trusted root certificate and then
installed on each client computer you
can use a root certificate that was
generated using an Enterprise solution
or you can generate a self-signed
certificate the validation of the client
certificate is performed by the VPN
Gateway and happens during establishment
of the p2s VPN connection the root
certificate is required for the
validation and must be uploaded to Azure
the second method is azure active
directory authentication Azure ad
authentication allows users to connect
to Azure using their Azure active
directory credentials native Azure
active directory authentication is only
supported for the openvpn protocol and
also requires the use of the Azure VPN
client the supported client operation
systems are Windows 10 or later and Mac
OS with Native Azure ad authentication
you can use Azure ad's conditional
access and multiactor authentication
features for a VPN what's more active
directory domain server provides on
premise authentication ad domain
authentication allows users to connect
to Azure using their organization domain
credentials it requires a radius server
that integrates with the ad server
organizations can also use their
existing radius deployment as you may
recall radius is a network protocol that
provides centralized authentication
authorization and accounting services
for remote users allowing secure access
to a network from various locations the
radius server can be deployed on
premises or in your Azure vet during
authentication the Azure VPN Gateway
acts as a pass through and forwards
authentication messages back and forth
between the radius server and the
connecting device gateway reachability
to the radius server is important if the
radius server is present on premises
then a VPN S2s connection from Azure to
the on premis site is required for
reachability the radius server can also
integrate with ad certificate services
this lets you use the radius server and
your Enterprise certificate deployment
for pointto Sight certificate
authentication as an alternative to the
Azure certificate authentication the
advantage is that you don't need to
upload root certificates and revoked
certificates to Azure a radius server
can also integrate with other external
identity systems this this opens up
plenty of authentication options for a
pointto sight VPN including multiactor
options in this video you explored what
pointto sight VPN is how it works and
the different authentication methods
that can be used with it since you only
have a few clients requiring access a
sight to sight VPN solution is
Impractical pointto sight VPN is a
convenient and cost-effective way for
users to connect to Azure from remote
locations if if you're looking for a way
to secure your remote access to Azure
point to site VPN is a good option to
consider in this video you'll learn how
to create a virtual Network or vnet for
deploying a virtual private Network or
VPN you'll review the essential settings
and learn about configuring an IP
version 4 address space and a subnet to
get started search for virtual Network
and select it from the services search
results then then select create on the
basic tab make sure you select the right
subscription under the resource Group
select create new and type test
rg1 then select okay insert the virtual
network name as vet one then check that
the region is set to us for security
settings leave all the defaults disabled
keep Azure Bastion Azure firewall and
Azure dos Network protect section
unchecked you can enable them by
checking the boxes if needed now let's
move on to the IP addresses section this
is where you add an IP version for
address space and a subnet for the IP
address let's use 10.
1.0.0 and keep the address space as 16
then delete the default subnet and add a
new one by selecting the add a subnet
button name the new subnet as front end
and keep the IP address as
10.1.0
sl24 you don't need to select any
security settings simply select add with
all the necessary settings in place you
can now select the review plus create
button this will run the required
validations in the back end if
everything is set up correctly the
create button will turn blue select it
to initiate the v-net creation process
once the the deployment is completed
you'll receive a confirmation message
indicating that your v-net has been
successfully created in this video you
learned how to set up your v-net with
the necessary configurations to ensure a
secure and efficient Network environment
for your applications and
resources after setting up your VPN
you're ready to set up a virtual Network
Gateway in Azure this video will walk
you through the steps of creating a
secure and reliable Gateway for your
network to begin you'll create a virtual
Network Gateway let's start by searching
for virtual Network Gateway and then
selecting it from the search results
once the page loads select create to get
started on the basic tab you need to
provide the project details and the
instance information ensure that you
have the correct subscription added in
the instance details let's name the
instance vnet 1gw and keep the region as
East us the Gateway type should be VPN
and the VPN type should be route based
for the skew select VPN gw2 from the
drop-down menu next select generation 2
for the generation under virtual Network
let's choose the vnet created earlier
which is vnet one you'll notice that the
subnet details are automatically
populated from the vnet you'll also
notice that the resource Group is Auto
automatically selected once the virtual
network is chosen now let's move on to
the public IP address section let's name
the public IP vet 1G
wpip ensure that active mode and bgp are
disabled once all the necessary details
are filled select the review plus create
button the system will go through
validation and once it passes you can
proceed by selecting create the creation
process process may take a little time
but don't worry once done you'll receive
confirmation of successful deployment
you can select go to Resource to view
the VPN Gateway in a later video you'll
explore how to make use of this virtual
Network Gateway enabling secure access
to your network resources from
anywhere after setting up your VPN
you're ready to set up a virtual Network
Gateway in Azure this video will walk
you through the steps of creating a
secure and reliable Gateway for your
network to begin you'll create a virtual
Network Gateway let's start by searching
for virtual Network Gateway and then
selecting it from the search results
once the page loads select create to get
started on the basic tab you need to
provide the project details and the
instance information ensure that you
have the correct subscription added in
the instance details let's name the
instance vet 1gw you and keep the region
as East us the Gateway type should be
VPN and the VPN type should be route
based for the skew select VPN gw2 from
the drop- down menu next select
generation 2 for the generation under
virtual Network let's choose the vnet
created earlier which is vnet one you'll
notice that the subnet details are
automatically populated from the vnet
you you'll also notice that the resource
Group is automatically selected once the
virtual network is chosen now let's move
on to the public IP address section
let's name the public IP vnet 1G
wpip ensure that active mode and bgp are
disabled once all the necessary details
are filled select the review plus create
button the system will go through
validation and once it passes you can
proceed by selecting
create the creation process may take a
little time but don't worry once done
you'll receive confirmation of
successful deployment you can select go
to Resource to view the VPN Gateway in a
later video you'll explore how to make
use of this virtual Network Gateway
enabling secure access to your network
resources from
anywhere so far you've learned about
creating a vnet and setting up an Azure
VPN Gateway now let's go over the steps
of using the VPN Gateway from the client
side within the properties navigate to
Point to site configuration here you'll
find the assigned address pool tunnel
type authentication settings and other
configurations next you can click on
download the VPN link to get the VPN
client once downloaded you can install
it on your device for this demonstration
it will be installed on a Windows 11
machine on the Windows 11 PC see the VPN
client is copied to the desktop to
install simply doubleclick the client
file you receive a prompt to install the
VPN client for vnet 1 select yes to
proceed with a quick
installation after installation go to
your network settings and navigate to
the VPN section there you'll find the
VPN named vnet1 already available Select
v-net 1 and choose connect this will
open a detail page where you can select
connect to establish the VPN connection
this will open a small window whenever
you want to connect simply select the
connect button then to disconnect select
cancel once you connect you receive a
message stating that the v-net needs to
make some routing changes to your system
select continue the status will then
display that you are
connected in this video you learned how
to use the VPN Gateway from the client
side allowing you secure access to your
network
resources many large corporations such
as technology companies have complex
network infrastructures with employees
operating from multiple
locations this means many IP addresses
are used and monitored for security
purposes to manage and detect
unauthorized access it is essential that
large networks are efficiently organized
to manage broadcast traffic that flows
quickly this is done by dividing the
network into smaller parts with
groupings of certain IP addresses
allocated to each part this
configuration not only maintains a well
organized network but saves time and
allows for secure boundaries to be
defined such as between organizational
departments now you'll discover how this
is achieved in this video you'll explore
the steps to configure IP addressing on
Microsoft Azure with some fundamental
concepts by following these steps you
can ensure a seamless and efficient
networking environment you'll also
familiarize yourself with the IP
addresses needed for the resources and
establish proper connectivity within the
Azure virtual Network before examining
the steps to configure IP addressing in
Microsoft Azure it's important to first
understand relevant Concepts beginning
with what IP addressing is IP addressing
is a way of identifying devices that are
connected to a network it uses unique
numerical identifiers called IP
addresses and I IP address consists of
four sets of numbers separated by dots
like 1
192.168.0.1 these addresses are used to
locate and communicate with devices on a
network just like a phone number helps
us reach someone on a telephone Network
A system that helps organize and
represent IP address ranges and subnets
is called classless intradomain routing
or
cidr it allows you to specify the
network address and the number of bits
used for subnetting within that address
range to better understand subnetting
let's use an example imagine you have a
large piece of land and you want to
divide it into smaller plots or subplots
similarly subnetting involves dividing a
larger IP address range into smaller
subnetworks or
subnets this helps you organize your
network resources more efficiently and
gain better control over Network traffic
and security when you use subnets you
essentially borrow bits from the host
portion of the IP address to create the
subnet identifier think of these
borrowed bits as the address numbers on
each plot in the land
example by borrowing bits you create
multiple smaller subnets within the
larger IP address range let's think of
it in this way suppose you have an IP
address range starting at
10.0.0.0 in cidr notation you can
express this range as 10
10.0.0.0
sl24 the forward sl24 means that the
first 24 bits of the IP address are used
for Network identification but what if
you want to divide this range further
into four smaller subnets to do this you
need to borrow additional bits from the
host portion in this case using a cidr
notation of forward sl26 means you have
four subnets and each subnet can have 62
usable IP addresses subnetting has
several benefits it allows you to use
the IP address space efficiently
ultimately reducing wastage it helps to
better manage Network traffic by
dividing it into smaller more manageable
segments subnets also enhance network
security by isolating resources within
each subnet making it difficult for
unauthorized access to happen
furthermore subnetting enables better
organization and control over Network
resource es which is particularly useful
in large Network structures subnetting
within the Azure virtual Network allows
you to create a well organized and
optimized Network infrastructure with
increased control and flexibility to
manage resources efficiently so cidr and
subnetting are important Concepts in IP
addressing they help divide IP address
ranges into smaller subnets enabling
efficient resource allocation improved
Network performance and enhanced
security
now that you know what IP addressing and
subnetting is let's move on to the steps
to configure IP addressing on Microsoft
Azure the first step is to create an
Azure virtual Network recall that the
virtual Network acts as the foundation
for resources in Azure and provides the
networking infrastructure necessary for
configuring IP addressing like a
traditional on-premises Network you can
logically isolate and segment Resources
with a virtual Network in place you can
move on to configuring the IP address
space and begin examining subnetting at
a deeper level this step involves
defining the range of available IP
addresses to be assigned within the
virtual Network as well as creating
subnets using cidr notation the next
step is to create them to group similar
resources together and control Network
traffic flow within your virtual Network
the final step is assigning IP addresses
to your resources each resource within
the virtual Network such as virtual
machines or Azure Services gets
allocated an IP address from the defined
IP address space this ensures that the
resources can communicate with each
other within the virtual Network as well
as with external networks if it's
necessary in summary an IP address is a
unique numerical identifier assigned to
each device connected to a network it
consists of a series of four sets of
numbers separated by dots and serves as
the address that enables devices to
locate and communicate with each other
on the Internet or within a private
Network subnets allow you to divide a
large IP address range into smaller more
manageable segments this segmentation
helps in organizing and optimizing
network resources while applying
security policies at a more granular
level subnets can be seen as virtual
neighborhoods within a network where
devices with similar roles or
requirements reside in this video you've
explored the steps to configure IP
addressing on Azure and broadened your
understanding of Ip addressing and
subnets by following these steps you can
create a well-designed and
interconnected Network environment
within the Azure virtual
Network so far you've learned about
various tools that cyber Security
Experts use to strengthen their digital
defenses now let's dive into another
vital aspect of cyber defense
vulnerability management discovering its
importance and understanding its role in
securing an organization's it
environment will reveal an additional
layer of defense for your digital
resources first what exactly is
vulnerability management you can think
of it as a regular Health checkup for
computer systems just as you wouldn't
ignore a potential health issue
vulnerabilities in a network must not be
overlooked as they can lead to Serious
consequences if left un addressed
vulnerability management is a proactive
approach to cyber security encompassing
the process of identifying assessing
mitigating and managing security
vulnerabilities within an organization's
it infrastructure these vulnerabilities
can manifest in various forms including
software flaws misconfigurations or even
weaknesses in network components the
process of vulnerability management
involves a well-defined sequence of
steps first organizations conduct
vulnerability assessments to identify
potential weaknesses in their systems
subsequently these vulnerabilities are
carefully evaluated to determine their
severity and potential impact on the
infrastructure armed with this
information organizations prioritize the
vulnerabilities based on risk and begin
implementing appropriate measures to
mitigate their impact but it doesn't end
there vulnerability management is an
ongoing process as organizations
continuously monitor for new threats and
adapt their defenses accordingly by
staying ahead of potential attackers
businesses can ensure their systems
remain adequately protected the
importance of vulnerability management
cannot be overstated especially in
today's digitally connected world where
cyber threats are everywhere a single
unaddressed vulnerability could lead to
devastating consequences for an
organization a successful Cyber attack
can result in data breaches significant
financial losses damage to an
organization's reputation and even legal
liabilities vulnerability management
equips organizations with the necessary
tools to identify and eliminate these
weaknesses before they can be exploited
by malicious actors for example regular
vulnerability scanning allows
organizations to identify weaknesses in
systems while penetration testing
assesses the effectiveness of existing
security measures by conducting regular
vulnerability scans and promptly
implementing mitigation measures
organizations can stay ahead of
potential attackers and reduce the
window of opportunity for exploitation
this proactive approach to security
maintenance ensures that organizations
can respond swiftly to emerging threats
and prevent potential cyber
catastrophes effective security patch
Management on the other hand ensures
that software is up to-date reducing the
risk of exploitation due to known
vulnerabilities and creating a robust
incident response plan prepares
organizations to handle potential
breaches efficiently minimizing the
impact of cyber attacks
now let's move on to discussing the two
main types of vulnerabilities that can
exist in an organization's it
infrastructure first are software
vulnerabilities which are flaws or
weaknesses in the code of software
applications that can be exploited by
malicious actors these may include
programming errors outdated software
versions or inadequate security measures
and then their configuration
vulnerabilities which arise from
incorrect or inadequate configurations
of hardware software or network devices
these oversights can open doors to
attackers if left unaddressed combining
both software and configuration
vulnerability assessments provides a
comprehensive view of an organization's
security posture and help cyber Security
Professionals prioritize their efforts
effectively in conclusion vulnerability
management is an essential component of
any comprehensive cyber security
strategy by diligently following the
best practices outlined in this video or
organizations can significantly improve
their security posture and reduce the
risk of falling victim to cyber attacks
remember in today's digital age no
organization is immune to cyber threats
and vigilance is key to safeguarding
critical assets and information
embracing vulnerability management as a
proactive security measure enables
organizations to navigate the
complexities of the digital landscape it
ensures a robust and resilient defense
against emerging threats vulnerability
management is a critical aspect of cyber
security it lets you identify assess
mitigate and manage security
vulnerabilities within an organization's
it infrastructure protecting it from
harm this video will focus on the core
components of the vulnerability
management process such as identifying
vulnerabilities prioritizing them based
on risk and applying remediation
strategies to ensure a secure
environment as you may recall
vulnerabilities are weaknesses or flaws
in a system or software that can be
exploited by threat actors to compromise
its Integrity confidentiality or
availability these vulnerabilities can
arise from coding errors
misconfigurations or design flaws the
first step in vulnerability management
is to identify these weaknesses which
starts with vulnerability scanning a
proactive process that involves using
specialized tools to scan networks
systems and applications to identify
potential vulner vulnerabilities these
tools simulate attacks attempt to
exploit known vulnerabilities and report
back the findings vulnerability scanners
continuously evolve to keep up with
emerging threats and new vulnerabilities
once vulnerabilities are identified
through scanning the next step is to
analyze them during this stage cyber
Security Experts review the scan results
and assess the severity and potential
impact of each vulnerability factors
considered in this analysis include the
vulnerabilities exploit ability
potential consequences and affected
assets not all vulnerabilities carry the
same level of risk so prioritization is
crucial vulnerabilities are often
categorized into different levels of
severity such as low medium high and
critical the prioritization process
helps organizations focus on fixing the
most critical vulnerabilities first
factors that influence prioritization
includes the potential impact on the
organization the likelihood of
exploitation and the availability of
public exploits to prioritize
vulnerabilities effectively
organizations need to have a
comprehensive asset inventory an asset
inventory includes all Hardware software
and network devices within an
organization's environment
classification of assets based on their
criticality and importance enables
better decision- making during
vulnerability
prioritization highly critical assets
such as servers hosting sensitive data
or essential business applications
should receive special attention and
frequent vulnerability
assessments understanding the
relationships between assets can help
organizations assess the potential
impact of an attack on an interconnected
system once vulnerabilities are
prioritized the focus shifts to
remediation where various effective
strategies come into play the initial
approach involves applying patches and
updates which are regularly released by
software vendors to address known
vulnerabilities sometimes
vulnerabilities stem from
misconfigurations adapting
configurations according to Industry
best practices can significantly reduce
the attack surface in cases where
immediate patching is not possible
implementing temporary workarounds can
mitigate the risk until a permanent
solution is available another strategy
involves security controls implementing
additional security controls such as
firewalls intrusion detection systems or
access controls can add layers of
protection against potential exploits
finally collaborating closely with
vendors is vital particularly for
vulnerabilities in third-party software
or
Hardware this collaboration ensures
timely updates and fixes further
enhancing the remediation process
vulnerability management is not a
one-time process it's an ongoing effort
organizations should continuously
monitor their systems for new
vulnerabilities apply the latest patches
and reassess their risk posture feedback
l loops and regular vulnerability
assessments help ensure that any new
vulnerabilities are promptly identified
and addressed there are a number of
factors that organizations should
consider when managing vulnerabilities
these include an organization's risk
tolerance budget and compliance
requirements risk tolerance varies among
organizations some may be more risk
averse and prioritize the remediation of
even low severity vulnerabilities while
Others May Focus primarily on critical
vulnerabilities due to Resource
constraints it's essential to strike a
balance between risk tolerance and
resource allocation to achieve effective
vulnerability management organizations
should also establish clear risk
management policies and communicate them
across the organization this ensures a
shared understanding of severity
thresholds and the necessary actions for
different vulnerability types another
factor to consider is the organization's
budget the cost of remediation can vary
based based on vulnerability severity
and system complexity another Factor
involves compliance requirements which
significantly influences vulnerability
management especially for regulated
Industries regulatory bodies often set
specific standards and guidelines for
handling
vulnerabilities organizations must align
their vulnerability management practices
with these requirements to maintain
compliance regular vulnerability
assessments reporting mechanisms and
documented remediation efforts are
critical components of compliance-driven
vulnerability management the
vulnerability management process is a
vital component of a robust cyber
security strategy by identifying
prioritizing and remediating
vulnerabilities organizations can
significantly reduce the risk of
security breaches and data compromises
staying ahead of cyber threats requires
vigilance constant learning and a
proactive approach to ensure the safety
of digital assets micros roft Defender
vulnerability management offers
intelligent assessments risk-based
prioritization and built-in mitigation
and Remediation tools these capabilities
help you to discover assess and
remediate vulnerabilities and
misconfigurations all in one place for
example you can see Consolidated asset
inventories block vulnerable versions of
applications and proactively monitor
compliance against industry benchmarks
and customizable baselines for the rest
of this video I'll demo Defender
vulnerab ility management starting right
here in the dashboard it provides a
quick overview of your security
landscape based on Microsoft threat
intelligence with tiles like your
organization's exposure and device
scores threat awareness details
leveraging Microsoft threat insights and
prioritized security
recommendations to see a more detailed
list of security recommendations just
select show
more Defender vulnerability management
provides extended asset coverage see
Consolidated asset inventories of
software browser extensions and digital
certificates it found in your
organization these inventories help you
to monitor potential vulnerabilities and
misconfigurations across your entire
digital estate first the browser
extensions tab lists the extensions
found in your organization for each
extension in the list you see the
permission risk the number of devices
that have it installed and importantly
the number of times the extension
requested permissions select any browser
extension to see more details about it
in this case ad block plus has a
critical permissions risk so I'll start
here in the details side pane you see
some basic information about the
extension and you see a list of
permissions that it requested on the
permissions tab what makes this
extension a critical risk is that it
requires access to all urls next is to
see where this extension is installed by
selecting the installed devices tab for
each I can see whether the extension is
turned on or not which version is
installed and so on on similarly the
certificates tab lists the certificates
found in your organization the list
contains the obvious details like issue
and expiration dates key length and so
on that's great but filtering the list
is the value here to get a sense of
things you need to prioritize select
filter and then filter to show
certificates that are expiring soon and
those with a short key
length the details side pane for
certificate provides all the expected
certificate details then then select
installed devices to see a list of the
devices that have the certificate
installed now back to the software tab
the first application in the list is
Google Chrome because it has the
greatest impact on my exposure score
select an application to see more
information in the details side pane but
to really drill down select open
software page the overview provides well
an overview of the software that
includes a summary of the weaknesses
discovered in the software and the
number of exposed devices over time the
security recommendations tab lists all
the actions associated with this
software the first one update Google
Chrome addresses the greatest number of
weaknesses so I'll select it to get more
details I see that there is one critical
cve and 72 high priority cves associated
with it not only that but I also see the
note that a verified exploit is publicly
available ouch the exposed devices tab
lists the devices where this software is
installed and the associated cve tab
provides a full list of all the cves
associated with it it's clear that
updating Google Chrome is super
important so I'm going to request
remediation right here without having to
jump over to use a different tool to get
started select request remediation while
I could Target this remediation at all
device groups I'll choose to Target
selected device groups and then select
North
America on the remediation request page
you can choose to update the software
uninstall it or something else I'm
updating it of course provide a d date
priority and any notes that will help it
complete your remediation request things
get interesting on the next page where
you can choose a mitigation action these
are temporary measures to reduce risk
until it has updated the software in
this case I want to block the
application until it remediates it when
users try to run Google Chrome they'll
see the warning message Mage you provide
here and that's it submit the
remediation request and you're done all
within Defender vulnerability management
I was able to identify a problem request
its remediation and temporarily block it
nice you can also pivot to a wider more
comprehensive view to focus on the
biggest vulnerabilities on your most
critical assets the recommendations page
consolidates multiple data feeds to
provide a detailed list of security
actions like protecting Network shares
that we prioritize by risk impact along
with each action's relevant threat
insights for example updating Chrome and
wire shark are prioritized first because
of the high number of weaknesses
associated with them selecting a
recommendation shows contextual details
that include relevant cves and exposed
devices then after reviewing the details
you can move seamlessly into remediation
by selecting request
remediation keeping with the all-in-one
Place theme you can also track the
status of your requested remediations
within Defender vulnerability Management
on the remediation page in this case I
can see that my remediation is in
progress and by selecting it I get more
details including information about the
mitigation action and the remediation
status this capability Bridges the SE
Ops and it teams to help ensure the
organization doesn't Overlook
vulnerabilities while blocking
vulnerable software and planning
remediations are important so is
proactively managing your security
posture and measuring compliance with
configuration benchmarks in Defender
vulnerability management the baselines
assessments page helps you do just that
the overview tab summarizes device
compliance top failing devices top
misconfigured settings and compliance
over time to use this tool you must
first customize it to meet your
organization's goals to do that you
create custom profiles that continuously
monitor your assets and configurations
against the benchmarks that you choose
for my demo I'll select create to create
a new profile that monitors Windows 10
compliance with CIS benchmarks give the
profile a memorable name and I'll
describe what I'm trying to achieve with
this profile and then I'll scope the
profile by first choosing the software I
want to monitor Windows 10 in this case
selecting CIS version one as my
Benchmark and setting the compliance
level to one after scoping my new
profile I can choose the specific
settings I want to monitor in this case
I want to monitor a small number of
settings around our organization's
password policies like setting the
minimum password length to 14 characters
our users are going to love this
one next I can simply choose to monitor
all device groups or I can Target
specific groups by selecting choose
device groups and followed by the groups
I want to Monitor and that's
it I'll click through to the end to
create the profile
you see that here at the top of the
list now I can continuously monitor
compliance Against The Benchmark at both
the device and configuration levels
including the number of compliant and
non-compliant
devices Defender vulnerability
management helps you to discover assess
and remediate vulnerabilities all in one
place we encourage you to experience it
for yourself by signing up for a free
trial at akam ms/ mdvn
M Microsoft
[Music]
security now that you know more about
vulnerability management it's time to
consider specific vulnerabilities and
best practices for managing them within
the Azure environment this video
explores Azure specific vulnerabilities
related to Azure active directory and
Azure virtual machines and provides
valuable guidance on how to effectively
identify and remediate those
vulnerabilities you'll also learn about
essential security tools like Microsoft
Defender for cloud and other Azure
specific solutions that Aid in
vulnerability management by now you know
that vulnerabilities are weaknesses or
flaws in a system that can be exploited
by malicious actors as a popular Cloud
platform Microsoft Azure faces its share
of specific security challenges however
with the right approach and tools you
you can effectively manage and Safeguard
your Azure environment let's shed light
on some common Azure vulnerabilities and
how you can address them Azure active
directory or Azure ad is a vital
component of your Azure environment but
misconfigurations in Azure ad can lead
to significant risks insecure
permissions unsecured authentication and
inadequate access controls can all
expose sensitive data and lead to
unauthorized access to address Azure ad
vulnerabilities you should Implement
multiactor authentication MFA to enhance
user identity protection you should also
regularly review user permissions and
enforce the principle of least privilege
leveraging Azure ad's conditional access
policies can further strengthen your
security posture by allowing you to
define specific access rules based on
user location device and risk level
Azure virtual machines provide scalable
computing power but outdated software
and missing security updates on VMS can
expose your system to known exploits to
prevent virtual machine vulnerabilities
you should Implement a robust patch
management strategy Azure update
management can be utilized to automate
patch deployment across your virtual
machines ensuring they're upto-date and
protected against known vulnerabilities
now let's move on to discussing
Microsoft Defender for Cloud's
vulnerability management features
Defender for cloud vulnerability
management is instrumental in bolstering
the security of your Azure environment
it offers a robust set of tools to gain
comprehensive visibility into your Cloud
infrastructure identifying potential
threats and equipping you with effective
response measures with Microsoft
Defender for cloud you can confidently
manage vulnerabilities and fortify your
Azure resources against cyber threats
Microsoft Defender for cloud offers a
range of features including threat
detection
incident investigation and threat
hunting
capabilities the platform employs Ai and
machine learning to analyze vast amounts
of data and identify suspicious
activities across your Azure workloads
when Defender for cloud detects
potential vulnerabilities or threats it
provides actionable insights and
recommendations for
remediation it also integrates with
Azure security Center allowing you to
prioritize and address critical issues
promptly in addition to Microsoft
Defender for cloud there are several
other Azure security tools that can
augment your vulnerability management
efforts first there is Microsoft
Defender for identity this tool formerly
known as Azure Advanced threat
protection focuses on identity-based
attacks and Insider threats it uses
behavioral analytics and machine
learning to detect suspicious activities
related to identities in your Azure
environment next is azure information
protection protection or AIP for short
AIP helps protect sensitive data by
classifying and labeling files and
emails based on their content it also
enables encryption and access controls
to safeguard critical information from
unauthorized access you can also make
use of the Azure application Gateway
this service provides application Level
firewall and load balancing capabilities
helping protect your web applications
from common exploits and distributing
traffic
efficiently and finally there's the
Azure web application firewall a
cloud-based service that protects web
applications from common web
vulnerabilities and attacks these
include SQL injection cross-site
scripting and more while Microsoft
Defender for cloud offers an array of
features the combination of these
additional tools further enhances your
ability to manage vulnerabilities and
protect your Azure resources
comprehensively but but it's not just
tools that you have to consider you also
have to keep best practices in mind when
implementing continuous vulnerability
management these best practices include
regular security assessments and
vulnerability scans you should conduct
periodic security assessments and
vulnerability scans to proactively
identify weaknesses and potential
threats in your Azure environment you
should also employ automated security
controls automating security controls
and configurations whenever possible
minimizes human error and ensures
consistent security measures across your
Azure resources and don't forget about
timely patch management it's important
to keep track of security updates and
apply patches promptly to address known
vulnerabilities in your Azure virtual
machines and other services and finally
there centralized monitoring and
response by using centralized monitoring
and response mechanisms such as Azure
security Center you can gain a holistic
view of your security posture and
respond swiftly to any emerging threats
by following these best practices and
using effective Azure security tools you
can greatly enhance the security of your
Azure
environment your exploration this week
has been centered on a crucial facet of
cyber security employing preventative
tools and strategies to fortify your
systems and shield your data you started
with a deep dive into intrusion
detection and prevention systems or idps
for short idps detects and prevents
unauthorized access making your digital
world safer it keeps an eye on your
network scanning for threats and
preventing cyber attacks it's like a
digital guard for your data there are
different types of idps network-based
idps watches Network traffic for
anomalies while host-based idps resides
on individual servers adding a layer of
security Wireless idps protects wireless
networks from unauthorized access you
discovered several key components of
idps including sensors that collect
network data analyzers that analyze the
collected data looking for attack
patterns and management consoles which
provide a centralized interface to
Monitor and manage the
idps following this you learned more
about Azure firewall premium idps a
robust tool that safeguards your Azure
resources
it uses signature-based detection like a
digital fingerprint to spot threats
including zero day
vulnerabilities when malicious patterns
are detected it can either alert you or
block the traffic from reaching your
resources benefits of using Azure
firewall premium idps include enhanced
security against a wide range of threats
reduced false positives centralized
management through the Azure portal and
scalability to grow with your Network's
needs configuring Azure firewall premium
idps involves creating an idps policy
this policy defines what traffic to
Monitor and the actions to take upon
detecting threats you can assign this
policy to your Azure firewall with
elements like specifying monitored
traffic types actions to take and Rule
priority you also touched on the
importance of incorporating incident
response plans into your cyber security
strategy incident response is a crucial
process that handle security incidents
from detection to remediation
organizations should have a well-defined
incident response plan in place
outlining steps to detect contain
neutralize recover and remediate
incidents next you learned about
Advanced Techniques for Designing and
implementing firewall strategies in
Azure a well-designed firewall serves as
a critical barrier protecting your
valuable resources from unauthorized
access while enabling legitimate traffic
to flow securely it considers factors
such as scalability high availability
and compliance requirements to ensure
comprehensive security for your Azure
environment what's more you learned that
Network topologies are another critical
component of firewall design influencing
the overall security performance and
manageability of resources in an Azure
environment Hub and spoke architectures
centralized services in a Hub Network
funneling traffic for control and
security virtual Network peering
facilitates resource sharing while
maintaining isolation between
interconnected networks and Azure
firewall with private endpoints
integrates firewalls with virtual
networks enhancing security by
eliminating public exposure you then
moved on to learn that VPN gateways are
essential components that connect on
premises networks and Azure virtual
networks more specifically you learned
that a point to site VPN Gateway
connection enables individual client
computers to securely connect with a
cloud-based virtual Network such as
Azure virtual networks or on premises
data centers it offers secure reliable
and efficient connections from remote
locations it offers numerous features
including security and encryption
scalability authentication multiple
platform support and integration with
Azure Services you also learned about
the pointto side connection process and
delved Deep by learning how to set up
your own in Azure first an individual
client computer initiates a p2s VPN
connection using VPN software the client
software presents a certificate for
authentication to the Azure VPN Gateway
the Azure VPN Gateway verifies the
certificate's authenticity upon
verification the Gateway establishes a
secure SSL IPC tunnel with the client
through this tunnel the client can
securely send and receive data with a
virtual Network or on premises data
center you follow this by learning about
the importance of vulnerability
management a proactive approach to cyber
security that involves identifying
assessing mitigating and managing
security vulnerabilities within an
organization's it
infrastructure this process includes
vulnerability assessments to find
weaknesses evaluating their severity and
impact prioritizing them based Onis risk
and implementing measures to mitigate
their effects to further embed your
understanding you delved into the key
steps involved in vulnerability
management including using specialized
tools to scan networks systems and
applications for vulnerabilities
simulating attacks to identify potential
weaknesses analyzing scan results to
assess the severity and potential impact
of vulnerabilities considering factors
like exploitability and affected assets
prioritizing vulnerability ities based
on severity to focus on fixing the most
critical ones first and addressing
vulnerabilities through patches
configuration changes workarounds
security controls and collaboration with
vendors and third parties you learned
that vulnerability management is not a
one-time process it's an ongoing effort
that involves continuous monitoring and
reassessment supported by feedback loops
and regular vulnerability assessments
equipped with this knowledge you are
better prepared to implement
preventative measures respond
effectively to incidents and maintain
the security and integrity of your
systems and
data with its robust capabilities the
command line has become an indispensable
instrument in the hands of ethical
hackers assisting them in navigating the
intricate security assessment landscape
and safeguarding digital assets against
emerging threats by harnessing the
command lines power penetration testers
Traverse complex environments execute
targeted tests and retrieve critical
information that might evade graphical
user interface or gooey based approaches
over the next week you will discover how
the command line empowers penetration
testers to perform in-depth analysis
make informed decisions and ultimately
enhance the security posture of the
systems they assess in this video you
will explore the command line interface
or as it's also called the CLI you will
understand its importance to penetration
testing and discover several tools used
for ensuring thorough testing but before
you explore its tools let's discuss what
makes the CLI so crucial to penetration
testing as you previously learned
penetration testing involves
meticulously assessing systems networks
and applications for potential
vulnerabilities penetration testers
prefer the CLI due to several key
advantages firstly efficiency is
essential to a successful penetration
test and an area where the CLI shines
unlike graphical user interfaces or GUI
that often require numerous clicks and
navigations the CLI allows penetration
testers to execute commands rapidly and
precisely for instance let's consider
Network scanning by using network mapper
or nmap through the CLI you can swiftly
scan a range of IP addresses and
identify open ports and services this
speed is crucial especially in time
sensitive scenarios require IR iring
immediate analysis you will learn more
about Network mapping later in this
video with a c's concise syntax you can
often accomplish tasks Faster by typing
commands rather than navigating through
menus in a guy this efficiency empowers
penetration testers to cover more ground
in less time next is flexibility in the
dynamic landscape of penetration testing
adaptability is Paramount the CLI tool
allows penetration testers to tailor
their approach to different systems
networks and scenarios imagine you
encountered a unique Network
architecture or a specific vulnerability
that requires a custom approach with a
CLI testers can easily modify command
parameters change flags and fine-tune
their tools to suit the target
environment this adaptability is
invaluable when dealing with complex
systems or evolving attack vectors the
CLI empowers you to Pivot quickly
ensuring your tactics remain effective
in the face of changing
circumstances automation has become a
GameChanger for penetration testers it
allows you to streamline repetitive
tasks and maintain consistency
throughout your assessments a CLI tool
can be scripted to automate tasks like
scanning root Force attacks and data
analysis so instead of manually
executing the same command sequences
multiple times testers can write scripts
to hand handle these tasks automatically
consider a scenario where you must test
a list of user accounts for weak
passwords with the CLI you can use a
tool like Hydra to perform Brute Force
attacks on different protocols saving
you time and effort you will learn more
about Hydra later you also have resource
efficiency another compelling reason to
embrace the CLI and penetration testing
CLI tools are often leaner and consume
fewer system resources compared to their
gooey counterparts when conducting
resource intensive tasks like Network
traffic analysis or password cracking
using the CLI ensures that your system
remains responsive and doesn't get
bogged down by heavy graphical
interfaces this efficiency is especially
advantageous when running multiple tests
simultaneously or when working with
limited Computing resources last upop is
remote access penetration testing
frequently involves assessing remote
systems or Network works the CLI and
Technologies like secure shell or SSH
offer secure and reliable remote access
with SSH penetration testers can
establish encrypted connections to
remote servers enabling them to execute
commands transfer files and conduct
tests without being physically present
this remote access capability is
essential for assessing systems in
different Geographic locations enabling
testers to conduct evaluations without
needing on-site visits now that you have
explored the core advantages of using
the CLI in penetration testing let's
delve into some standard CLI tools
indispensible for conducting thorough
assessments first up is Network mapper
or nmap which you discovered earlier
nmap is a versatile open-source tool for
network discovery and security auditing
it helps testers scan hosts identify
open ports services and potential
vulnerabilities next is Metasploit
framework a comprehensive tool Suite
that aids penetration testers in
simulating attacks with a vast
collection of exploits payloads and
modules Metasploit helps testers uncover
system weaknesses you also have wire
shark which is a leading Network
protocol analyzer it captures and
displays data traveling across a network
enabling testers to analyze Network
traffic identify anomalies and potential
security issues next is burp Suite
an essential tool for web application
security testing its modules including a
proxy scanner and Intruder allow testers
to assess the security of web
applications and
apis earlier you discovered Hydra Hydra
is a powerful password cracking tool
designed to perform Brute Force attacks
on various protocols like secure shell
file transfer protocol and more aiding
testers in testing weak credentials next
aircraft nexgen or NG is a set of tools
focused on wireless network security it
assists testers in capturing packets
analyzing encryption and conducting
attacks on wireless networks to uncover
vulnerabilities and lastly grap regular
Expressions which stands for Global
regular expression print reflects its
primary functionality of searching for
regular expressions and printing
matching lines grap is a command line
utility used in Unix oper rating systems
you can use graph and regular
Expressions to uncover signs of
unauthorized access unusual activities
or potential vulnerabilities hiding
within the logs it helps testers search
for specific patterns within text files
logs and outputs from other tools aiding
in identifying relevant information the
command line interface with its
efficiency flexibility automation
capabilities resource efficiency and
remote access features is an
indispensable asset in the world of
penetration
testing this video demonstrated the
importance of the CLI to penetration
testing and explored the various CLI
tools available for conducting thorough
assessments as you embark on your
journey into penetration testing
mastering these CLI tools will Empower
you to effectively identify
vulnerabilities assess security risks
and provide valuable insights into the
security posture of systems Networks and
applications so far you've learned that
the command line interface or CLI is a
text interface for your computer
allowing you to give commands quickly
which are then passed on to the
computer's operating system to run in
fact the CLI has now become a powerful
tool in the fight against cyber crime
you also explored penetration testing
and learned how it has become a crucial
tactic for assessing and enhancing an
organization security by simul ating
real world attacks penetration testers
can identify vulnerabilities before
threat actors can exploit them but what
makes the CLI a powerful tool the CLI
provides you with a powerful and
efficient method for controlling your
computer's operating system enabling you
to perform several tasks including
navigating the file system seamlessly
and executing numerous commands this
video will explore the CLI and
demonstrate several commands penetration
testers used during their testing whilst
there are numerous commands available
for you to use in the CLI the following
are some of the most common first is who
am I during a penetration test who am I
gathers a list of users who are
currently active on a device in order to
determine how much access and privilege
each user has by identifying the current
user identity penetration testers can
further explore this system and assess
the potential impact of a security
breach next is a command that allows you
to mount a remote Network as a
penetration tester mounting a remote
Network share can help you to identify
if there are misconfigured share
permissions that allow unauthorized
users to access sensitive data this
helps organizations understand their
Network vulnerabilities and take steps
to secure their file sharing
infrastructure next up is net share by
using the net share command you can
identify if there is an open or
accessible share that shouldn't be
accessible to unauthorized users the
result of running this command can help
testers to recommend a secure network
security solution to the respective
organization and lastly net local group
with net local group you can retrieve
the local groups to understand the user
and group privileges on a Windows system
this command helps you to identify
potential vulnerabilities and security
misconfigurations related to user
management and group memberships by
using the local group command you can
identify privileged accounts access
privileged escalation paths identify
misconfigurations and simulate attack
scenarios you previously learned that to
launch the CLI on your windows you
simply click win plus r on your keyboard
or within the start menu type CMD in the
search bar and press
enter Mac OS is a little different you
can open Terminal from the applications
or utility folder and lastly within
Linux you can find the terminal in your
applications menu or by simply using the
shortcut Control Plus alt plus T great
now that you understand several commands
that can be used and how to launch them
on your own system let's dive into the
demonstration by learning how to use the
CLI to perform penetration testing tasks
like viewing current Network shares
current user information retrieving
local groups and administrators adding a
new user and gathering information about
a network system to start let's get a
list of current users type the who am I
command into the command line currently
the only active user is C6 M mod next
let's retrieve the local groups from the
system to do this type net local group
into the command line to view the
current Network shares type net share
into the command line this shows you all
current shares on the system now let's
retrieve the list of local
administrators you do this by typing net
local group administrators into the
command line there may be occurrences
where you need to add a new user to the
current host to do this run the command
net user then put the name of the user
you would like to add for this scenario
let's use cod user pentest pass/ add
lastly let's gather information about
the configuration of your network
settings user account accounts and other
security related parameters on a Windows
system to do this type in the command
net config this provides information
about the target system which you may
require for any testing you are
performing in this video you explored
the CLI you learned how to launch the
CLI and some of the common commands that
are used before diving into a
demonstration of how to enter these
commands You Now understand that CLI is
a versatile tool it enables you to carry
out Network reconnaissance vulnerability
assessments and perform several
exploitation techniques however it's
crucial to remember that unauthorized
penetration testing is unethical and
against the law ethics should always be
a factor in your decisions you should
always ensure that before you perform
penetration testing you have Express
Authority from the organizations to
access their
systems have you ever wished you could
have a personal assistant to help manage
your personal life like planning your
social events doing the school runs or
simply assisting with chores around the
house you would benefit from the
organization a personal assistant would
bring to your life with its powerful
features Powershell has become the
personal assistant of it professionals
it's now a crucial command line shell
and scripting language that has
redefined system management and
automation Powershell allows users to
interact with and manage resources using
commands within the Microsoft and Azure
space this integration of Powershell
with Azure offers penetration testers a
powerful tool set to assess and test the
security of cloud environments designed
as a task engine Powershell uses CMD
lets or command lets to do everything
from managing your files and resources
to troubleshooting issues and automating
workflows this video will demonstrate
the Azure Cloud Shell by completing
several basic commands including
retrieving a list of resources available
viewing a list of virtual machines and
Gathering a list of storage accounts you
have active in your environment let's
start by retrieving a list of
resources to do this use the get-az
resource command this provides you with
a list of all the resources in the
environment and includes information on
the resource Group location the resource
ID and confirms if there are any tags
next let's get a list of virtual
machines with in the environment you
complete this by using the command
get-az VM currently there are seven
active virtual machines as well as
displaying the active machines it also
gives you details relating to their
locations the virtual machine size the
operating system type the network
interface card and the provisioning
state of the virtual machine lastly
let's retrieve a list of storage
accounts you do this through the command
line get a storage account again you'll
notice a list of storage accounts
available and several details relating
to these storage accounts by using the
get keyword within your command you are
able to retrieve information about any
of your resources while these are some
basic commands that are available there
are several other commands which can be
used like SQL database which can be used
to obtain information about Azure SQL
databases including settings and access
controls you also have network security
groups or nsgs which can be used to
retrieve details about nsgs including
Associated security rules or ad user
which can retrieve information about
Azure active directory users including
roles and group memberships next key
vault which can obtain details about
Azure key vaults which stores keys and
certificates and log which can retrieve
azure active logs and diagnose security
related events and lastly network
interface which can obtain information
about network interfaces including
Internet Protocol configurations and
associations these commands comprise a
formidable toit however there may also
be instances where you need to perform
tests on your network this can be done
with the following commands network
security rule config can be used to
validate Network Security Group gr rules
for correct syntax and potential
misconfigurations while VM network
access can be used to check network
connectivity to and from Azure virtual
machines while there is a more expansive
list of commands in the additional
resources at the end of this lesson you
might be wondering how you can locate
these commands within Powershell
thankfully Windows Powershell provides
you with various techniques and
resources to find the command let for
your your specific task first is the get
help command which provides you with a
list of all Powershell commands
available in your module and their usage
you also have the get module command
which allows you to explore the
available modules by listing them on the
screen at the execution of the command
in this video you learned how Powershell
commands can be used to automate tasks
while mastering Powershell may seem
daunting through practice and repetition
you can make your Learning Journey
easier try using Powershell yourself to
perform some of the commands witnessed
in this video by embracing Powershell
you can enhance your efficiency reduce
manual effort and ultimately achieve
more within your organization you will
dive deeper into Powershell as a
scripting language later organizations
are increasingly migrating their
infrastructure to platforms like
Microsoft Azure however as the cloud
landscape expands so do the potential
attacks surfaces penetration testers
play a vital role in identifying these
vulnerabilities in Azure environments as
you may recall Powershell is a scripting
language commonly used for Automation
and administration tasks in the windows
environment the Azure command line
interface or Azure CLI is a set of
commands used to manage resources in
Microsoft Azure Microsoft developed
power shell as a robust and versatile
command line shell in scripting language
Powershell provides provides a
comprehensive framework for creating
executing and automating tasks it is an
indispensable tool for users or
administrators who want to streamline
execution processes and improve
productivity within the windows
ecosystem in this video you will explore
these fundamental Azure CLI tools that
penetration testers should be well
versed in to assess and secure Azure
deployments effectively you will also
get a Hands-On demonstration of CLI and
discover several administrative tasks
including creating a resource Group and
virtual machine Let's Start by exploring
the various tools used by testers first
up is azure CLI which is a
cross-platform command line tool that
allows penetration testers to manage
Azure resources it offers a vast range
of commands for provisioning managing
and monitoring Azure Services pent
testers can use the Azure CLI to create
virtual Mach machines resource groups
storage accounts blob containers manage
storage configure networking and more
for example the avvm create command can
deploy a virtual machine by mastering
Azure CI penetration testers gain the
ability to interact directly with Azure
resources mimicking real world attacker
scenarios next is azure Powershell which
as you discovered earlier is another
valuable tool for penetration testers
built on Windows Powershell it provides
a comprehensive set of command lets that
are specifically designed for Azure
Resource Management penetration testers
can leverage Azure Powershell to perform
tasks like creating and managing Azure
active directory users configuring Azure
key Vault and handling Azure resource
manager templates using the Azure
Powershell testers can automate complex
tasks and conduct detailed Assessments
in azure environments enhancing
efficiency during penetration testing
activities Azure resource graph Explorer
is another indispensible CLI tool that
enables penetration testers to query and
analyze the entire Azure resource
landscape it assists in identifying
potential misconfigurations such as
exposed storage accounts or overly
permissive network security groups Azure
resource graph Explorer AIDS penetration
testers in gaining a holistic view of
azure environments for a more thorough
assessment next is azure active
directory Powershell module which is now
a crucial tool for penetration testers
focusing on identity and access
assessments it lets you manage Azure
active directory allowing testers to
examine user accounts roles groups and
authentication policies pentesters can
utilize this tool to simulate attacks
involving privilege escalation weak
password policies and unauthorized
access
by understanding how Azure active
directory Powershell operates testers
can uncover identity and access
management vulnerabilities a crucial
aspect of cloud security now that you've
explored the various Azure CLI tools
penetration testers use to assess and
secure Azure deployments effectively
let's demonstrate the use of several
Powershell scripts using the Azure CLI
console let's start by connecting to the
Azure environment to do this type in the
command line syntax a login when you
press enter you are redirected to a web
browser where you enter your Microsoft
admin credentials to sign in once you
are logged in you can go ahead and close
the browser to return to the Powershell
console when you return to the console
your details will be displayed on the
screen now let's get a list of azure
subscriptions you have in your account
to do this use syn tax a account list
then type-- output table again just
press enter displayed are the details of
all Azure subscriptions within your
environment and includes the
subscription ID tenant ID and status of
the Azure
subscription next let's create a
resource Group using the Azure command
line the syntax to create a resource
Group is a group creates then again type
- Dash and name now you need to open a
quotation to put in your resource Group
name for this scenario let's use the
resource Group name Sams scoop RG in
this instance the RG represents Resource
Group now close the
quotation next you need to provide the
region for your resource Group let's use
East us and place it within quotation
marks great you have now placed all
details in for creating the resource
Group just press enter on your keyboard
and in a few seconds your resource Group
will be created you will notice the
provisioning state has succeeded now
let's create a storage account using the
command line syntax a storage account
then enter create you also need to
mention the name variable like earlier
enter D- name then open the quotation
and put in the name of your storage
account for this scenario Ario let's
call it Sam scoop storage location now
simply close your quotation next you
need your resource Group
variable in this case within your
quotations you enter the resource Group
name you created earlier Sam scoop RG
then enter the location again this is
East us the last step is to confirm the
SKU details so again Dash Dash and in
quotation marks type standard _
lrs all information needed to create a
storage account has now been entered
once you have confirmed the information
entered is correct just press enter the
creation should be completed within a
few seconds when using Azure CLI you
should replace all the placeholder
values like Resource Group names
subscription names or IDs like account
names and passwords with your own values
you also need to ensure you have the
Azure CLI installed and are log logged
in before running these commands
otherwise you can use the cloud shell in
this video you gained an understanding
of the different command line tools a
penetration tester can employ to perform
administrative tasks within the Azure
space you also explored how to use the
Azure CLI completing several commands
that can be used to execute various
tasks within Azure CLI it's important to
remember that powershell's command list
can vary based on the modules you have
installed and your own systems
configuration Microsoft Azure has
emerged as a prominent player in cloud
computing it offers a robust and
versatile platform for organizations to
build deploy and manage applications and
services however the convenience and
power of cloud Solutions also come with
increased security challenges in this
video you will learn how penetration
testing often referred to as ethical
hacking is a proactive approach to
identify vulnerabilities and ensure the
security of azzure environments you will
explore the best practices for
performing a penetration test and which
activities are encouraged and prohibited
while conducting the test conducting
penetration tests is a critical practice
to assess the security posture of cloud
environments firstly let's kick things
off by exploring the fundamental best
practices for conducting a penetration
test before you begin penetration
testing there are several crucial steps
to put in place ensure that you have the
necessary permissions from all
stakeholders including those who own or
manage systems that may be tested
identify the systems and data that are
critical to your business operation and
prioritize them for testing identify any
systems or data that cannot be tested
due to confidentiality issues document
all assets in scope for penetration
testing and create a testing plan
outlining the steps to be taken during
the assessment identify any thirdparty
applic apption or services that you use
in your environment and ensure that they
are included in the penetration test
gather the required information and
assets required for testing such as
usernames passwords IP addresses URLs
and so on disable any unnecessary
services or applications that may
interfere with the testing process and
finally check that all systems have the
most recent security updates installed
these best practices lay the foundation
for for a successful and comprehensive
penetration test especially for Azure
environments the process of azure
penetration testing involves identifying
potential vulnerabilities in Azure
infrastructure assessing them to
determine the impact they can have on
your business and recommending
appropriate mitigation strategies
Microsoft encourages you to test their
Azure services and to report your
findings to help address security gaps
however to protect their customers data
and to avoid disruption in their
services you must follow Microsoft's
penetration testing Rules of Engagement
which outline the activities that are
prohibited and encouraged while
performing penetration testing the
prohibited activities include the
following scanning or conducting tests
on other Azure customers assets
accessing data that is not completely
self-owned conducting any distributed
denial of service or dos attacks
performing Network intensive fuzzing
against any asset accept your Azure
virtual machine performing tests that
generate significant amounts of traffic
through automated testing methods
attempt fishing or any social
engineering attacks on Microsoft's
employees and finally using any services
that violate the acceptable usage
policies as mentioned in the online
usage terms now that you are aware of
the prohibited activities while
performing penetration testing let's
examine the activities that are
encouraged firstly create multiple test
or trial accounts to test cross account
access vulnerabilities on your virtual
machine run vulnerability scanning tools
perform Port scans or perform fuzzing
test your account by generating traffic
that is expected to match regular
working periods and can also include
surge capacity attempt to break out of
azure services to access other customer
assets if any such vulnerability is
found report it to Microsoft and seize
any further tests now that you are up to
speed with the penetration testing Rules
of Engagement let's explore some tools
that you can use to perform a
penetration test Microsoft's cloud-based
platform offers multiple attack Vector
options for Azure penetration testing
you can use the Azure portal Azure
virtual networks and Azure web apps to
gain unauthorized access or disrupt
ongoing business operations by by
manipulating the data flow through
different components Microsoft also
provides a free trial version of its
Azure assessment tools that include SEC
rat a security risk assessment tool and
Cloud assessment proxy or cap depending
on the criticality and nature of issues
identified during the assessment phase
you can use many other tools these
include Cloud inspect from bit site
which audits Cloud infrastructure from
misconfigurations or V vulnerabilities
Azure site 247 networks a security scan
tool that scans all ports on Azure VMS
and reports any open TCP UDP ports along
with possible threats associated with
them etics wvs which provides web
application scanning capabilities as
well as DNS enumeration testing and as
you may recall nessus is an excellent
choice for vulnerability scanning while
open vas focuses more on network
scanners such as nmap and SS lies among
others and finally Microsoft's Azure
security Center is also a good choice
for Azure penetration testing if you're
considering implementing a new
cloud-based application it's best to be
as prepared as possible for potential
threats performing Azure penetration
testing provides you with more
information on vulnerabilities in your
organization and helps provide Secure
Solutions before problems arise in this
video you learned about the best
practices for penetration testing the
penetration testing Rules of Engagement
and some tools that you can use to
conduct your testing by doing some
research and taking precautionary
measures you can help to prevent your
data being breached by hackers and
improve your organization security
posture penetration testing is a vital
component in ensuring the security and
resilience of cloud environments hosted
on the Microsoft Azure platform in cyber
security the dynamic Dynamic interplay
between offensive and defensive
techniques forms the basis of an
effective strategy to safeguard
sensitive data applications and
infrastructure from the ever evolving
landscape of cyber threats in this video
you will learn about how Azure
penetration testing works the
relationship between the offensive and
defensive aspects of penetration testing
and how it creates a comprehensive
approach to identifying weaknesses
simulating potential attacks and
fortifying defenses within an Azure
ecosystem let's begin by examining
offensive and defensive techniques in
more detail offensive techniques similar
to the actions of ethical hackers
involve simulating real world cyber
attacks to assess the ezure environment
susceptibility to breaches and
unauthorized access these techniques
demonstrate the tactics employed by
malicious actors acting as a crucial
litmus test to identify potential
threats within the Azure infrastructure
on the other hand defensive techniques
involve the Strategic deployment of
security measures designed to protect
against these identified vulnerabilities
by proactively addressing security gaps
building defensive measures around
access controls and optimizing security
configurations organizations can build
robust defenses that prevent the
occurrence of risk and mitigate
potential threats the interaction
between offensive and defensive
techniques is the core mechanism through
which Azure penetration testing operates
this Dynamic interplay is similar to a
game of cat and mouse enabling Security
Professionals to stay one step ahead of
cyber attacks as offensive techniques
identify vulnerabilities defensive
techniques develop security measures to
strengthen these vulnerabilities
creating a continuous cycle of
assessment and refinement in this manner
Azure penetration testing becomes a
holistic and iterative process C that
not only identifies risks but also
empowers organizations to proactively
secure their Azure environments to
understand how Azure penetration testing
Works imagine a scenario where a Sam
Scoops it Security administrator wants
to conduct a penetration test on Sam's
Microsoft Exchange servers that run in
an Azure environment the first step
involves scanning the available Azure
infrastructure for Azure virtual
machines or VMS that are running
exchange servers after Azure vm's
hosting exchange servers are identified
the administrator can use a suite of
tools to identify vulnerabilities in
those Azure components and exploit them
to conduct Azure penetration testing
successfully it security administrators
need access to both offensive and
defensive tool sets a way to achieve
this would be through something you are
familiar with red versus blue operations
and an offensive tool set enables
administrators to discover potential
loopholes or exploits while conducting
Azure penetration tests it is important
that administrative staff are aware of
how these attacks work so they can take
the appropriate steps to defend their
organization against such threats when
you understand what Azure penetration
testing is and how it works it becomes
clear why it is important for
organizations who are considering
deployments in Azure platform
infrastructure it administrators should
not only have expertise in the offensive
methods used during Azure penetration
testing but they must also understand
the defensive techniques so that they
can apply them while defending against
these attacks now that you are aware of
how Azure penetration testing Works
let's examine offensive techniques
penetration testers or ethical hackers
use offensive techniques to emulate the
tactics that malicious hackers might
employ offensive techniques simulate and
replicate real world cyber attacks
against a system Network application or
infrastructure the primary objective of
this technique is to identify
vulnerabilities and potential security
gaps within a Target environment thereby
helping organizations proactively
address and remediate these issues
before malicious hackers can exploit
them organizations can prioritize
remediation efforts allocate resources
effectively and enhance their overall
cyber security posture with the help of
the information gathered from offensive
testing now that you understand what
offensive techniques are in the context
of azure penetration testing let's
explore some examples firstly
vulnerability scanning involves scanning
the Azure environment for known
vulnerabilities in both the
infrastructure and the application this
may involve using tools like the open
vulnerability assessment scanner or open
vas or Azure security Cent vulnerability
assessment
features next is Brute Force attacks
which are an attempt to gain
unauthorized access to Azure accounts
virtual machines or Services by using
multiple combinations of user names and
passwords another offensive technique is
exploitation which is an attempt to
exploit a misconfigured Azure resource
or a vulnerable application hosted on
Azure to gain unauthorized control
control and finally fishing simulations
involve sending simulated emails to
users in a bid to assess their
susceptibility to social engineering
attacks next let's examine defensive
techniques defensive techniques involve
implementing several measures to protect
Azure environments from potential
threats and vulnerabilities identified
during offensive testing it is a
technique designed to mitigate
vulnerabilities strengthen security
measures and prevent unauthorized access
exploitation or compromise of sensitive
data these techniques are an integral
part of maintaining a robust cyber
security posture and safeguarding
digital environments from various forms
of cyber attacks let's explore some
examples access control and identity
management requires implementing strong
authentication methods r-based access
control and the least privileged
principles to restrict access to
authorized users only using role-based
access controls grants access to
resources based on the role assigned to
the user in the request the principle of
least privilege allows a measure of
access to be granted to the user in the
request with limited time and limited
coverage this is also known as just in
time and just enough access firewalls
and network security groups control the
inbound and outbound traffic between
Azure resources Azure encryption
Services can encrypt data at rest and
data in transit intrusion detection and
prevention systems or idps monitor
Network traffic for signs of malicious
activity and perform automated actions
to prevent attacks finally developing an
incident response plan including
procedures for containing and mitigating
breaches can help when dealing with
security incidents in this video you
learned how penetration testers can use
offensive and defensive techniques to
mitigate and remediate risk both
techniques play crucial roles in
maintaining the security of an
organization offensive techniques help
to expose vulnerabilities that might go
undetected while defensive techniques
ensure that the environment is
adequately protected against potential
threats it is important for
organizations to engage in regular
penetration testing and security
assessments to identify and address
weaknesses before they can be exploited
by malicious actors there are several
examples of organizations experiencing
incidents that could have been avoided
if the proper protection mechanisms had
been in place such incidents include
information leakage unauthorized access
and data loss among many others in this
video you will identify the steps
involved in penetration testing on Azure
to help you find vulnerabilities and
provide a solution before a cyber
criminal can take advantage of them to
begin let's examine the goal of
penetration testing this is to simulate
real world attacks evaluate the system's
ability to withstand them and strengthen
your Azure resources security posture
these processes can reduce the cost and
time required to solve future problems
due to application vulnerabilities a
penetration test involves conducting
offensive tests against the existing
defense mechanisms in the environment
these tests range from exploring the
victim's devices to studying the human
factor using social engineering in the
the context of Microsoft Azure
penetration testing is aimed at ensuring
the security of cloud-based resources
preventing data breaches and
safeguarding sensitive information
performing penetration testing in Azure
requires careful planning and adance to
Microsoft's guidelines to ensure the
security of the environment let's
examine the steps to perform penetration
testing in Azure in more detail to begin
it is important to secure proper
authorization and document your testing
plan obtain proper authorization from
the Azure account owner or administrator
before conducting any penetration
testing and document the scope
objectives tools and techniques you
intend to use during the testing next
select an appropriate testing approach
this can be white box black box or gray
box testing depending on the information
you have available about the Azure
environment after choosing your approach
establish a dedicated testing
environment create a separate or
segregated environment within Azure
configuring the required resources and
networks for testing purposes this is
crucial to prevent inadvertent
interference with the production
environment then deploy the necessary
resources virtual machines and networks
for testing purposes subsequently
identify your targets and Define testing
scenarios identify the specific Azure
resources and services that will be
tested
then Define scenarios and attack vectors
that simulate real world threats next
choose your penetration testing tools
select penetration testing tools
suitable for Azure environments such as
Azure security Center Azure Sentinel and
other third-party tools keep in mind
that you must ensure the tools are
compliant with azure's policies and
security guidelines then execute the
penetration test using the selected
tools perform vulnerability scanning
Network mapping and application testing
the primary focus should be on
identifying common vulnerabilities such
as misconfigurations weak access
controls and known security issues once
the test is concluded thoroughly analyze
the results review the findings from the
penetration test including
vulnerabilities weaknesses and potential
exploits based on their severity and
potential impact prioritize the
identified issues after analyzing ing
the results of the test perform
remediation and mitigation work with the
Azure environment owner to address the
identified vulnerabilities and
weaknesses apply necessary patches
updates and configuration changes to
mitigate the risks then retest and
validate conduct a retest to ensure that
the identified vulnerabilities have been
properly addressed validate the
effectiveness of the applied
remediations the next step is reporting
and communication prepare a detailed
penetration test report that includes
the testing process findings
vulnerabilities and recommended actions
communicate the findings to the Azure
account owner or administrator including
any risks that need immediate attention
finally Embrace a culture of continuous
Improvement learn from the findings and
experiences of the penetration test
incorporating these lessons into future
testing Endeavors and security measures
me remember that Azure has its own
specific guidelines and requirements for
conducting penetration testing before
starting review Microsoft's official
documentation on penetration testing in
Azure to ensure compliance and prevent
unintended disruptions to your
environment by following these steps you
can conduct effective penetration
testing in Microsoft Azure enhancing the
security of your Cloud environment and
safeguarding your valuable assets from
potential threats Azure penetration
testing can help you improve the
security posture of your Azure
environment by identifying and fixing
the weaknesses that could be exploited
by malicious actors it can also help you
comply with security standards and
regulations that require regular testing
of your Cloud infrastructure in this
video you learned that penetration
testing in Microsoft Azure is an ongoing
and iterative process as the cloud
environment evolves new vulnerabilities
can emerge necessitating regular testing
to ensure the system security posture
remains robust by following a systematic
and well-defined penetration testing
process you can confidently improve your
Azure security proactively identify and
address vulnerabilities and Safeguard
your digital assets and sensitive data
in the ever evolving landscape of cyber
threats there are many benefits to
having isolated resources to conduct
penetration testing in this video you
will explore the steps to create and
configure azure resources to be used for
penetration testing and how to create
these resources using the Azure portal
first let's examine the steps to
configure your Azure resources in
preparation for penetration testing
setting up the Azure environment for
penetration testing requires configuring
Azure resources this involves setting up
and customizing various components
within the Azure Cloud platform to start
log into the Azure portal using your
Azure administrator account credentials
this is the central interface where you
manage and configure your Azure
resources you can create various types
of resources such as virtual machines
databases storage accounts web apps and
so on depending on the type of resource
you are creating you can configure the
resource settings by providing specific
details such as the resource name region
size operating system and more for many
resources you'll need to configure
networking syst settings this might
involve setting up virtual networks
subnets IP addresses and security groups
networking configuration is crucial for
controlling how your resources
communicate and interact with each other
in the outside world if you're setting
up storage resources like Azure storage
accounts you'll need to configure
storage options access controls and data
redundancy settings for databases you'll
need to configure data storage backups
and security next you may be required to
configure identity and access management
settings using Azure active directory or
Azure ad and roll-based access control
or rbac this configuration allows you to
assign appropriate roles and permissions
to users and groups to control who can
access and manage your resources after
resources configuration you can
configure monitoring and alerting
settings to track the performance and
health of your resources Azure provides
tools tools such as Azure Monitor and
Azure log analytics for the tracking of
metrics logs and generating alerts
depending on your resource type you can
also configure scaling options for
example you can set up autoscaling for
virtual machine instances based on load
Additionally you can consider using
Azure automation to automate routine
tasks and Resource Management next you
can integrate your resources with other
services or Solutions for example you
might integrate your web application
with Azure content delivery Network or
CDN for improved content distribution
for continuous integration and
continuous deployment or cicd pipelines
you can use Azure Dev Ops before
finalizing your configurations review
your settings to ensure that they align
with your requirements you can then
validate your configurations for
accuracy and potential security
vulnerabilities when you're satisfied
with your configurations you can deploy
your newly created Azure resources at
this stage it is recommended that you
test their functionality to ensure
they're working as intended the last
step is to set up a plan to continuously
monitor the performance and security of
your resources you can adjust this plan
as needed and stay informed about
updates and changes to your Azure
Services now that you're familiar with
the steps to configure Azure resources
for penet ation testing let's explore
how to do this practically using the
Azure portal to configure your Azure
environment in preparation for
penetration testing you must create and
configure a resource including its
Associated network settings depending on
the administrative or automation task
you want to test to create an automation
account select create a resource and
under automation select create the
automation account contains information
about the Automation runbooks and
configuration used for automating
operations and management tasks in Azure
and non aure resources to create an
automation account you must have an
active subscription if you do not have
an active subscription you must create
one before moving on to the next step
next select an active Resource Group
from the drop-down menu if you do not
have an active Resource Group you must
create one before moving on to the next
step for the purposes of this video
Let's select the Sam Scoops Resource
Group next enter an automation account
name for example pentest automation next
select the region for your resource for
example West us2 and select next leave
the system assigned checkbox selected by
default and select next you can also
leave the network connectivity
configuration set to Public Access by
default and select next you can create
tags for your automation account on the
tags page for the purposes of this video
let's leave this as default and select
next review your automation account
settings and once the validation pass
message displays select create it may
take a few minutes to deploy your
automation account when the deployment
completes select go to Resource to view
the details of the resource you have
created in this video you learned about
the steps involved in configuring your
Azure resources in preparation for
penetration testing you also explored
how the process of configuring Azure
resources can vary based on the specific
resource type you're working with and
you learned how to create a resource
using the Azure portal by following
these steps you can create and configure
your Azure resources in preparation for
penetration testing a penetration
testing framework is used to create a
similar or familiar environment used for
different distributions it's a
structured approach and set of tools
used by cyber Security Professionals to
conduct thorough security assessments of
systems networks applications and other
digital assets these Frameworks provide
a systematic methodology for identifying
vulnerabilities assessing risks and
recommending remediation measures they
help to ensure that tests are conducted
consistently efficiently and with a
focus on best
practices before you take a deep dive
into some popular penetration testing
Frameworks let's explore a brief
overview of what tools are available one
popular penetration testing framework is
the penetration testing execution
standard or
pte however there are many other popular
open-source penetration testing tools
and Frameworks such as Metasploit
framework the open web application
security project zet attack proxy or
oasp zap gobster Network mapper or nmap
and structured query language or SQL map
these can be adapted and used to assess
the security of azure environments in
this video you will learn how to set up
Metasploit on Azure as one of the
penetration testing Frameworks before
you set up the Metasploit framework
let's take a deep dive into how it works
while exploring some other well-known
open-source penetration testing tools
that you can use for testing Azure
environments the Metasploit framework is
a penetration testing tool that provides
a wide range of exploits payloads and
auxiliary modules a Metasploit
penetration test begins with the
information gathering phase where it
integrates with various reconnaissance
tools such as nmap SNMP scanner and
windows patch enumeration to find
vulnerabilities in your system after the
vulnerabilities ident identified you can
choose an exploit to penetrate it if the
exploit is successful the payload is
executed at the Target and the user gets
a shell to interact with the
payload once on the target machine
Metasploit offers various exploitation
tools for privileged escalation packet
sniffing screen capture and pivoting
tools the extensive features of
Metasploit are modular and extensible
making it easy to configure for every
user requirement another open-source pen
testing tool is oasp zap a web
application security scanner that is
intended to be used by both beginners
and professional penetration testers it
identifies vulnerabilities in web
applications hosted on Azure next is
gobster which is a tool used for
directory and file brute forcing it can
also help in discovering hidden files
and directories on web servers in your
Azure environment finally SQL L map is
used for detecting and exploiting SQL
injection vulnerabilities in web
applications which can be relevant if
you are testing Azure hosted web
applications with database backends now
that you are familiar with the kinds of
Open Source tools available for
penetration testing on Azure let's
discuss the steps involved in
configuring the Metasploit framework in
more
detail to set up the Metasploit
framework on your machine for use and
Azure you should first prepare your
local machine or the dedicated
penetration testing system where you
will run
Metasploit from the Metasploit website
download the Metasploit framework when
the download is complete open the
downloaded file follow the process to
complete the installation in the
installation wizard select next accept
the terms in the license agreement and
select next select browse to choose the
location where you want to install the
framework
use the default settings to install the
framework on the C
drive select next then select install to
begin the installation
process you can monitor the progress of
the installation using the status bar
the installation may take a few minutes
to complete when the installation
process is complete select finish next
from the file explorer navigate to the
location where you installed the mesit
framework open the metlo folder and copy
the file path C SL
Metasploit next open the command prompt
by typing CMD in the windows search bar
and selecting the command prompt app to
launch the M exploit framewor console
perform the following steps first move
up one level in the directory Tree by
typing cd- do Dot and press enter move
up another level in the directory Tree
by typing CD space dot dot once again
and pressing enter paste the path you
copied and press enter now that you have
navigated to the Metasploit directory
launch the framework using the msf
console command you can now use this
environment to conduct penetration
testing on your Azure resources in this
video you learned about the various
open-source tools that you can configure
for Azure penetration testing you also
explored how to configure the metes
sploit framework to conduct responsible
effective and ethically sound
penetration testing on Azure resources
incorporating the Metasploit framework
into your process will prove invaluable
staying informed of changes in both the
metlo framework and Azure will help you
to continue to be successful in
conducting your penetration tests Azure
security testing is the process of
evaluating the security measures and
defenses of resources and services
within Microsoft Azure the process of
Azure security testing involves the use
of several techniques methodologies and
tools to assess the security posture of
azure resources this can involve both
automated and manual testing to
thoroughly evaluate various aspects of
the environment in this video you will
learn how to configure Azure security
settings Azure groups and Azure firewall
settings for penetration testing one of
the best reasons to use Azure for your
applications and services is to take
advantage of its wide array of security
tools and capabilities Azure security
provides visibility and control over the
security of azure resources like virtual
machines cloud services Azure virtual
networks and blob storage you are
already aware that security is the
responsibility of everyone in the
organization therefore you should be
familiar with the tools and capabilities
that make it possible to create a secure
Solution on the Azure platform for your
existing resources config furing Azure
security settings for penetration
testing involves creating a controlled
environment that allows ethical and
responsible penetration testing without
jeopardizing the security and integrity
of your Azure resources Azure security
testing includes vulnerability scanning
penetration testing configuring auditing
network security assessment web
application testing identity and access
management review data security
assessment and more it is is crucial for
maintaining a strong security posture
especially as Cloud environments are
Dynamic and subject to ongoing changes
now that you are aware of the basics of
azure security testing let's explore how
to configure Azure groups for
penetration testing an Azure group in
the context of penetration testing could
refer to a group of users or components
within Microsoft Azure that play a role
in organizing resources controlling
access and managing security
when conducting penetration testing in
Azure focus on ensuring proper isolation
of test environments it is also
important to control access through
role-based access control or rback and
permissions and lastly you should follow
security best practices to prevent
accidental disruptions to production
resources using the Azure portal you can
create Azure groups and add members from
roles including Global administrator
user administrator role ad administrator
and groups
administrator after you have
successfully created the group you can
use it to manage access and run a
penetration test on any Target resource
now that you are familiar with Azure
groups let's examine the role of azure
firewall for penetration testing
controlling outbound network access is
an important part of an overall network
security plan one way to control
outbound network access from an Azure
subnet is with Azure firewall with with
Azure firewall you can configure
application rules and network rules
application rules Define what type of
traffic is allowed for a given
application and network rules Define
source address protocol destination port
and destination address next let's
examine how to configure Azure groups
and Azure firewall settings for
penetration testing in more detail
getting started with the Azure security
Center requires you to have access to
Microsoft Defender for class CL
Microsoft Defender for cloud enables you
to view the security posture of your
organization it also enables you to view
active recommendations or configurations
to enhance the security level of your
organization to create an Azure group
type group in the search field and under
Services select groups select new group
to create a new Azure group for the
group type select security from the
drop-down menu for the group name type
Sam's Scoops group Next provide a group
description Learning and Development for
the Azure ad roles that can be assigned
to the group select yes you can scroll
down to assign owners members and roles
select create to create your Azure group
for penetration testing to configure the
Azure firewall settings type firewall in
the search field and under Services
select firewalls
to create a new firewall select create
first confirm you have an Azure
subscription before you deploy your
Azure firewall settings next select
create new to create a new Resource
Group for the name type Sam Scoops
Resource Group and select okay next for
the firewall name type Sam Scoops
firewall select east west from the
region drop-down menu to create a new
firewall policy select add new for the
policy name type Sam scoop policy select
eastest for the region scroll down and
select okay in the virtual network name
field type Sam Scoops virtual Network
for the address space type
10.0.0.0
sl16 type
10.0.0.0
sl24 for the subnet address space to add
a public IP address select add new for
the name type Sam Scoops IP and select
okay now that you have entered all the
required information select review plus
create after the validation pass message
displays select create when your
deployment is complete a message
displays confirming that you have a
successful deployment in this video you
learned how configuring Azure firewall
settings and groups for penetration
testing requires a balance between
granting controlled access and
maintaining security it's an essential
aspect of ensuring the security
assessments provide valuable insights
into vulnerabilities while upholding the
Integrity of azure resources
organizations that approach penetration
testing with a focus on responsible
testing ethical consideration and proper
configuration are better equipped to
enhance their security posture
effectively when it comes to cyber
security the security of web
applications within Azure is a crucial
concern as the digital landscape expands
so do the potential avenues for cyber
threats this is where the practice of
web application penetration testing
steps in in leading the charge are the
powerful tools of azure CLI and Azure
Powershell these tools and power
Security Professionals to conduct
comprehensive tests discover
vulnerabilities and reinforce the
Integrity of their azure environment in
this exploration of web application
penetration testing this video delves
into the practicalities of securing
azure's digital domain through the
capabilities of azure CLI and Azure
Powershell you'll review the intricate
process of safeguarding web applications
ensuring they remain resilient in the
face of evolving cyber risks from
mimicking potential attack vectors to
deciphering vulnerabilities that may
lurk within code by the end of this
video you'll come to know the potential
of these tools to enhance security
measures solidify defenses and cultivate
a secure digital environment Azure CLI
and Azure Powershell provide a dynamic
and programmatic approach to web
application penetration testing for
instance let's say you're responsible
for the security of Sam scoop's
e-commerce website running on Azure your
team is concerned about a potential
vulnerability that could allow attackers
to compromise customer data it's a
critical issue that that needs immediate
attention in this scenario speed and
precision are vitally important manually
testing every aspect of the web
application is timec consuming and prone
to human error this is where automation
with Azure CLI and Azure Powershell
fulfills an important role these tools
allow you to script and automate tests
ensuring consistent and thorough
evaluations of your web applications
within the Azure
ecosystem now let's learn more about
about how Azure CLI and Azure Powershell
unveil vulnerabilities through web
application penetration testing before
delving into testing it's crucial to map
out the attack surface of the web
applications Azure CLI and Azure
Powershell can be used to gather
information about the applications such
as URLs endpoints and apis this initial
reconnaissance helps you to create a
comprehensive testing strategy now let's
fast forward to the testing phase here
you set up scripts to automate input
validation tests input validation
testing aims to identify vulnerabilities
like SQL injections cross-side scripting
and other injection attacks Azure CLI
and Azure Powershell can automate the
process of sending malicious inputs to
web forms and apis to uncover potential
vulnerabilities with tools like oasp app
a free tool that helps to find the
vulnerabilities in the applications or
API endpoints or burp Suite another web
penetration testing toolkit you can
simulate various attack scenarios to
identify weak points in the application
but that's not all Azure CLI and Azure
Powershell also enable you to simulate
authentication bypass attempts this
ensures that unauthorized users cannot
gain access to sensitive parts of the
application by scripting login attempts
with incorrect credentials or attempting
to escalate privileges you can evaluate
the strength of authentication and
authorization mechanisms security
headers play a crucial role in
mitigating common web vulnerabilities
Azure CLI and Azure Powershell can be
used to extract and analyze HTTP
response headers checking for the
presence of security headers like
content security policy or CSP HTTP
strict Transport Security or hsts and
other
missing or misconfigured security
headers can indicate potential
vulnerabilities web applications often
rely on apis for data exchange using
Azure CLI and Azure Powershell you
script API requests to evaluate the
security of API endpoints this involves
testing for unauthorized Access Data
exposure and potential injection attacks
that could compromise the Integrity of
the application it's important to note
that not all reported vulnerabilities
are real threats and some actual
vulnerabilities might be missed this is
why it's critical to analyze test
results carefully verifying whether
reported vulnerabilities are exploitable
and prioritizing them based on their
potential impact Azure CLI and Azure
Powershell can automate the process of
categorizing vulnerabilities based on
their severity and potential impact on
the application and underlying systems
this allows security teams to Prior
prioritize their efforts focusing on
critical vulnerabilities that could lead
to data breaches or service disruption
interpreting test results is not only
about identifying problems but also
providing actionable steps for
remediation Azure CLI and Azure
Powershell can be used to script fixes
configuration changes and patches that
address the identified
vulnerabilities this ensures a more
streamlined and efficient remediation
process web application pen penetration
testing on Azure resources is a
Cornerstone of maintaining a secure
Cloud environment the utilization of
azure CLI and Azure Powershell empowers
security teams to automate and
streamline the testing process enabling
thorough evaluations of web
applications by interpreting test
results identifying vulnerabilities and
providing targeted remediation
organizations can significantly enhance
the security posture of their web
applications hosted on azure
regular and systematic web application
penetration testing not only identifies
existing vulnerabilities but also
assists in proactively identifying
potential threats reinforcing Azure
standing as a robust and secure Cloud
platform Azure security Center offers
robust features for automating the
testing and continuous monitoring of
your Azure resources to detect security
issues and vulnerabilities these
assessments are scheduled to run
automatically at specified intervals
examining your resources thoroughly if
any vulnerabilities are identified
during these checks the system generates
alerts these realtime alerts are highly
configurable allowing you to receive
notifications through various channels
including email SMS or Azure monitor to
conduct recurring penetration tests
effectively within Azure security Center
you have two options Azure automation or
Azure logic apps Azure automation is a
comprehensive solution that allows you
to orchestrate and automate a wide range
of tasks and processes within your Azure
environment with Azure automation you
can create schedule and manage run books
that Define the specific steps and
actions required for penetration testing
on the other hand Azure logic apps offer
a more streamlined and simplified
approach to conducting recurring
penetration tests these apps provide a
visual workflow designer that allows you
to build automated processes using
pre-built connectors and triggers Azure
logic apps provide a more
straightforward and efficient way to
automate security assessments while
Azure automation is ideal for
organizations that require fine grained
control over the testing process in this
video you will learn how to configure an
account and a runbook to implement
recurring penetration tests using Azure
automation this process will enable you
to proactively maintain the security of
your Azure environment let's say you've
established a virtual environment or
container which serves as your
designated testing environment the next
crucial step is configuring Azure
automation to create a runbook this
runbook will house the necessary
commands or scripts required to initiate
a penetration test now let's explore how
you can accomplish this with a
step-by-step
demonstration to create a runbook on
azure create an automation account you
can do this by selecting automation
account on the dashboard blade and using
the create button if it's not visible on
the homepage type automation account in
the search field and select it from the
suggestions select the create tab to
create a new automation account or use
the create the automation account menu
below then you can add the necessary
information first select the
subscription it must be an active
subscription and attach it to an
existing Resource Group if you don't
have an existing Resource Group use the
create new tab next provide an account
name for instance Sam Scoops account and
choose East us as the region select next
on the advanced tab ensure system
assigned is enabled you can leave all
other settings as default once you
receive the message that validation
passed
select the create button next let's
create a runbook for a penetration test
navigate to runbook on the left
navigation panel use the create a
runbook tab to create a new runbook
enter the runbook name for example Sam
Scoops book select the Run book type you
can choose any of the available options
select the runbook version that is
available and provide a description if
required after providing the required
information select create now that you
have successfully created a run book in
the Azure automation account you can
proceed to input your command using
templates or runbooks using any of these
items or assets once you've selected the
resource you want to test you run the
test pane with the Sam Scoops account
and the Run book created the next step
is to set up a schedule for the runbook
to execute the penetration test at the
desired frequency
in this video you explored the
capabilities of azure security Center
which enables automated testing and
continuous monitoring of azure resources
to identify security issues and
vulnerabilities these assessments run
automatically at specified intervals
generating alerts if vulnerabilities are
detected you observed how to create an
account and runbook for a recurring
penetration test within Azure security
Center using Azure Automation in an
upcoming video you'll learn how to use a
runbook to create a recurring schedule
and configure alerts using the
automation account configuring automatic
testing and Azure security Center
involves setting up automated security
assessments and vulnerability scanning
within an Azure environment this is
crucial for maintaining the security and
integrity of your resources after
creating an automation account for your
penetration testing you'll need to
configure it with a recurring schedule
to control the frequency of
vulnerability checks and resource
testing additionally configuring alert
generation is essential to promptly
notify you if vulnerabilities are found
during penetration testing now let's
move on to a demonstration of how to
configure recurring schedules for
testing and establish alert generation
to ensure timely responses to security
issues to configure a recurring schedule
on your run book within the Azure
environment you first need to ensure
that your run book has been published to
publish a run book
go to the runbook deployment page select
the edit drop down and choose Visual
Studio or portal from the edit view
select publish you will receive a
confirmation prompt choose yes this may
take a few minutes to propagate with the
Sam Scoops book runbook now published
the next step is to set up a schedule
for the Run book to execute the
penetration test at your desired
frequency you can configure your
schedule to recur as needed to do this
select the Sam Scoops book from the
runbook list select schedules from the
left navigation panel then choose add a
schedule you have the option to link a
schedule to a runbook select okay to
proceed next select add a schedule to
link the Sam scoop's runbook account
since you are attaching the schedule to
the runbook created earlier name your
schedule Sam scoop's book schedule
provide a description next under the
recurrence option select recurring you
can now configure your schedule settings
specifying the recurrence frequency the
default is every 1 hour for this
demonstration let's set the frequency to
every one week and select Mondays and
Tuesdays for the days of
recurrence you can also set the star
time for instance let's say you want the
schedule to start on the 10th of October
you can select a date from the calendar
Additionally you can also create an
expiration date if
required once you've input the correct
details select create to create your
schedule now you've completed the
process for creating a schedule for a
runbook for the purpose of penetration
testing within the Azure environment
finally you can configure the Azure
security Center to generate alerts for
specific security related events alerts
help track and respond to security
issues identified during the penetration
testing so so let's go over the steps to
set up an alert from the Sam Scoops
Account dashboard select alerts under
monitoring in the menu pane then select
create a rule now you can configure your
alert policy from the signal name drop-
down menu select custom log search to
attach or configure the alert to a
particular activity the log page is
displayed once you click on the custom
log search option expand the navigation
men menu click on query Tab and use any
of the templates you can configure an
alert for any of the log queries using
the automation jobs for instance you can
set up your alert based on log queries
and Azure automation jobs that are
completed among other
options then run the test click on the X
sign at the top of the log analytics
page to close the page on the create an
alert rule page click the create menu to
create the configured rule rule you can
now review the summary of the alert
policy in place now that all the
necessary information has been provided
you can go ahead and create the alert
policy by following the steps
demonstrated you can configure Azure
security alerts to help track and
respond to security issues that are
identified during penetration testing in
this video you've learned how to set the
testing frequency for vulnerability
assessments and configure an alert
policy to notify you when vulnerability
are detected in your resources these
steps are vital for maintaining a secure
Azure environment and proactively
addressing potential security issues
automating these processes not only
saves time but also ensures that your
Azure resources remain resilient in the
face of evolving threats the aroma of
freshly made waffle cones fills the air
at Sam Scoops the once small local
favorite that has now evolved into a
thriving business apart from its
delectable ice cream Sam Scoops is known
for its state-of-the-art online ordering
system but today isn't about flavors
it's about digital Warfare in one corner
of the corporate office is team red LED
by Ashton a tech Maverick with a
penchant for hacking on the opposite
side is team blo led by Kim a cyber
security genius the challenge is set
team red will simulate cyber attacks on
the company's online infrastructure
while team blue defends it the digital
background Sam scoop's online ordering
platform which holds crucial data from
thousands of dessert lovers at 9:55 a.m.
the countdown begins Ashton smirks with
confidence ready to get schooled Kim Kim
just winks and replies just don't cry
into your ice cream when you lose as the
clock strikes 10 team red unleashes its
first wave they bombard the site with
DOs attacks mimicking thousands of users
trying to access the platform at once
Kim's team is ready they swiftly reroute
genuine user traffic to auxiliary
servers keeping the primary servers
focused on diffusing the attack nice
move Ashton murders round two an
Ashton's team deploys malware in the
form of a fake promotional email hoping
someone from Sam Scoops will bite but
Kim's crew has trained the staff well
not a single person clicked on the
fraudulent 50% off coupon however the
real challenge comes after lunch Ashton
has saved the best for last using a zero
day vulnerability team red attempts to
access the database directly Kim's heart
races as alarms blared they didn't
expect this Riley a key member of Team
blue exclaims they're trying to extract
the flavor recipes those are
proprietary Kim ever the problem solver
proposes an audacious plan
let's redirect them to decoy databases
fill them with red herrings team blue
created false data bases filled with
ludicrous flavor recipes like bacon and
mint or pickled pineapple Ashton
initially thinking he gained the upper
hand soon realizes he's been duped the
clock neared 5:00 p.m. signaling the end
of the challenge both teams connect on
the company's group chat Ashton trying
to hide his disappointment congratulates
Kim you about done yourself this time
Kim replies it's not about winning or
losing Ashton it's about ensuring our
customers can enjoy their midnight
chocolate fudge or vanilla bean without
a side of cyber security
issues Sam the CEO enters the chat today
was a demonstration of our strengths and
weaknesses you've learned and you'll
grow now come join me in the kitchen for
a cone on the house amidst laughter and
camaraderie two teams United by common
love of ice cream and digital security
toasted their waffle cones in the world
of cyber security it was just another
day at Sam Scoops where flavors met
firewalls sprinkles aside let's review
the key takeaways from this tale as
demonstrated at Sam Scoops penetration
testing allows businesses to proactively
identify and rectify vulnerabilities in
their digital infrastructure before
malicious hackers can exploit them simul
ating real cyber attacks as team red did
offers an invaluable Hands-On
perspective on potential threats It
prepares the defensive team in this case
team blue for real world attack
scenarios the fishing attempt by team
red underlined the importance of Staff
training a well-informed team can be the
first line of defense against cyber
threats ensuring they don't fall for
deceptive tactics Kim's team's ability
to divert genuine traffic and create
decor databases during the test
reinforced the importance of having a
multi-layer defense strategy and
validated its Effectiveness this
scenario highlights that when it comes
to cyber security every day is a
challenge and every challenge is an
opportunity to strengthen your digital
defenses just as Sam Scoops continues to
Delight customers with its ice cream it
also ensures that cyber security remains
a top
priority you've embarked on a journey
through essential tools techniques and
best practices that Empower you to
enhance security conduct comprehensive
penetration tests and effectively
Safeguard your gital assets let's take a
moment to reflect on the key takeaways
from this week's learning firstly you
explored the pivotal role the command
line interface or CLI plays in
penetration testing more specifically
you discovered that the clii empowers
you to execute commands swiftly and
precisely enabling tasks such as rapid
Network scanning to efficiently scan a
range of IP addresses and identify open
ports and services this efficiency
proves to be critical in time-sensitive
scenarios Additionally the CLI provides
you with the flexibility to tailor your
approach to different systems and
scenarios making it adaptable even in
complex environments but that's not all
automation with CLI tools streamlines
repetitive tasks fostering consistency
throughout assessments a CLI tool can be
scripted to automate tasks like scanning
Brute Force attacks and data analysis
CLI tools are also resource efficient
consuming fewer system resources
compared to their graphical user
interface or gooy
counterparts this ensures your system
remains responsive during resource
intensive tasks plus secure shell or SSH
and the CLI offer secure and reliable
remote access facilitating remote system
assessments enabling you to execute
commands transfer files and conduct
tests without being physically present
furthermore you delved into the
essential CLI tools for penetration
testing including nmap a versal tool for
network discovery and security auditing
the Metasploit framework a comprehensive
suite for simulating various types of
attacks wire shark a leading Network
protocol analyzer for C capturing and
analyzing Network traffic burp Suite a
vital tool for conducting web
application security testing Hydra a
powerful password cracking tool air
crack NG which focuses on securing
wireless networks and GP and regular
Expressions which are handy tools to
help you search for specific patterns
within logs and text files you follow
this by learning about Powershell and
how it integrates with Azure for
penetration test testing discovering
that Powershell isn't your
run-of-the-mill tool it's a robust
command line shell and a versatile
scripting language that revolutionizes
system management and automation its
integration with Azure provides a
powerful tool kit for assessing and
fortifying the security of your Cloud
environments but that's not all powers
shells command lets are your go-to tools
for efficiently handling files
diagnosing issues automating complex
workflows and seamlessly interacting
with Microsoft and Azure resources you
also got handson with the Azure Cloud
shell putting it to work with essential
commands like retrieving a list of
resources available viewing a list of
virtual machines and Gathering a list of
storage accounts you have active in your
environment Additionally you explored a
range of other Nifty Powershell commands
like SQL Database Network Security Group
active directory user key Vault log and
Azure network interface each serving
specific purposes in managing Azure
resources and conducting thorough
Network tests you then moved on to
explore penetration testing within the
Azure environment discovering best
practices Rules of Engagement and
essential tools some of the best
practices you covered involved ensuring
that you have the necessary permissions
from Key stakeholders identifying the
systems and data that are critical to
your business operations and prioritize
them for testing identifying any system
or data exclusions documenting assets to
be tested and creating a testing plan
specifying any third-party applications
or services that need to be included
gathering information like usernames
passwords IP addresses URLs and so on
disabling any unnecessary services or
applications and finally ensuring that
all systems are up to dat plus you
learned about the importance of
following Microsoft's penetration
testing Rules of Engagement
distinguishing between prohibited
activities like scanning other Azure
customer assets and encouraged
activities such as creating test
accounts and vulnerability scanning in
addition to this you reviewed various
penetration testing tools including
Azure management portal virtual networks
and web apps by following these best
practices adhering to The Rules of
Engagement and leveraging a range of
penetration testing tools you can
enhance your organization security
posture mitigate potential threats and
Safeguard your valuable data in the
cloud environment you then moved on to
learn about the Synergy between
offensive and defensive techniques
offensive techniques simulate real world
cyber attacks to assess azure's
vulnerability unveiling potential
threats while defensive techniques
involve deploying security measures
strategically to protect against
identified vulnerabilities and mitigate
potential threats this Dynamic interplay
between offense and defense isn't a
one-time deal it's a continuous cycle of
assessment and refinement it's what
propels Azure security forward ensuring
your sensitive data applications and
infrastructure is protected from cyber
threats what's more you learned about
web application penetration testing
using Azure CLI and Azure Powershell
discovering that automation with Azure
CLI and Powershell streamlines testing
ensuring precision and efficiency you
gained insight into the importance of
Thoroughly mapping out the attack
surface of web applications this crucial
step involves gathering information
about URLs endpoints and apis to conduct
comprehensive assessments you zoned in
on the key components of web application
testing including input validation
testing authentication and authorization
testing analyzing security headers and
API testing
understanding the foundation of the pent
test is one thing distinguishing between
real threats and false positives or
negatives is another in your learning
you encounter the concept of risk
prioritization which relies on verifying
whether reported vulnerabilities are
exploitable and prioritizing them based
on their potential impact Azure CLI and
Azure Powershell can automate the
process of categorizing vulnerabilities
based on their severity and potential
impact on the application and underlying
systems
plus Azure CLI and Azure Powershell can
be used to script fixes configuration
changes and patches that address the
identified
vulnerabilities this ensures a more
streamlined and efficient remediation
process finally you learned that
configuring automatic testing in Azure
security Center is an essential step
from maintaining the security and
integrity of your resources within an
Azure environment this process involves
creating an automation account for
penetration testing and configuring with
a recurring schedule to control the
frequency of vulnerability checks and
resource testing additionally setting up
alert generation is crucial to receive
prompt notifications in case
vulnerabilities are discovered during
penetration testing you are now equipped
with the knowledge and tools needed to
understand and Excel in Azure CLI
Powershell and penetration testing by
exercising these skills you can
proactively enhance security measures
identify vulnerability and protect your
organization's digital assets
effectively you've almost reached the
end of the course after working hard to
finish the various videos readings
quizzes and exercises you've gained a
solid understanding of the topics
covered including penetration testing
preventative tools and how to complete a
penetration test in Azure now it's time
to demonstrate the numerous skills you
learn throughout this course by
completing the course project where you
will complete a testing strategy for the
white box testing of a penetration test
following this you will take on the
final graded assessment this assessment
will gauge your understanding of the
course's objectives and your ability to
identify the types and stages of
penetration testing including the
various roles and responsibilities of
the blue and red teams identify security
tools including virtual private networks
and intrusion detection and prevention
systems
and your ability to discuss penetration
testing in the Azure environment
including configuring a test environment
and the use cases of the command line
interface and Powershell however before
you take on the project and assessment
let's pause for a moment to explore what
you discovered on your Learning Journey
doing so allows you to evaluate your
comprehension of essential Concepts and
identify any areas needing additional
study before moving on you started this
course with an ruction to penetration
testing a powerful tool that goes beyond
traditional security measures to assess
the resilience of digital systems you
learned about its critical stages
including reconnaissance enumeration
exploitation escalation and the final
stage reporting and
Remediation these stages form the
foundation of effective penetration
testing which can Encompass various
methods including Network application
and social engineering testing you then
dived into intrusion detection and
prevention systems often referred to as
idps gaining insights into how these
systems detect and prevent unauthorized
access making your digital world safer
you also explored network based idps
host-based idps and wireless idps and
discovered the critical components of an
idps including sensors that collect
network data and analyzers that analyze
the collected data following this you
learned how Azure firewall premium idps
safeguards your Azure resources you now
also understand the value of incident
response plans which provide a
structured approach to dealing with
security incidents these plans outline
the steps to take when identifying
containing neutralizing recovering from
and resolving security issues next you
discovered that a well-designed firewall
is a critical barrier that protects
resources sources from threats while
enabling secure traffic flow in Azure
afterwards you dove into a variety of
network topologies such as Hub and spoke
virtual Network peering and Azure
firewall with private endpoints you then
moved on to VPN gateways and learned how
a point to site VPN enables individual
client computers to connect with a
cloud-based virtual Network securely and
even discovered how to set up your own
VPN within Azure you followed this by
gaining an understanding of the
importance of vulnerability management
which involves identifying assessing
mitigating and managing security
vulnerabilities within an organization
this process includes vulnerability
assessments to find weaknesses which
involve several steps including
vulnerability scanning vulnerability
analysis categorizing vulnerabilities
remediation strategies addressing
vulnerabilities and continuous
monitoring following this you explored
penetration testing in azzure with a
focus on the command line interface or
as it's also called the CLI you learned
how the CLI empowers you to perform
in-depth penetration testing analysis
Additionally you reviewed several
crucial CLI tools used for penetration
testing such as nmap Metasploit and wi
shark you then witnessed a demonstration
of Powershell and the CLI performing
various penetration testing tasks
including retrieving a list of resour
ources available and viewing a list of
virtual machines transitioning into the
Azure environment you gained a deeper
understanding of penetration testing
specific to azure's architecture you
also observed Azure system in action
where it created a resource Group for a
penetration test you then moved on to
configuring Azure security settings for
penetration testing and learned how
Microsoft Defender for cloud is a cloud
native security solution that monitors
and protects resources hosted in
Microsoft Azure furthermore you learned
about the importance of web application
testing and how Azure CLI and Azure
Powershell Empower you to automate and
streamline the testing process then you
examined a web application penetration
test in detail looking at its many
stages methods employed and the
displayed results before concluding the
week a demonstration Illustrated the
integration of penetration testing with
Azure security Center underscoring the
importance of aligning security measures
with azure's robust security features
it's important to remember that regular
penetration testing coupled with
effective remediation strategies is the
Cornerstone of resilient web
applications this concludes your review
of what you learned in this course on
cyber security tools and Technologies
now that you have a solid knowledge base
about cyber security tools and the
various technological Concepts you are
ready to dive into the course project
and final assessment best of luck
congratulations on reaching the end of
this course when you started this course
you probably had a limited understanding
of what penetration testing is and the
various stages it involves you also may
not have been aware of the different
tools and Technologies available to
testers for completing penetration
testing but now you should be aware of
the methods used for testing an
organization cyber security resilience
this includes a particular focus on the
Brilliance of azure and how it supports
organizations around the world in their
fight against cyber crime by learning
about Azure and the variety of tools
available you have equipped yourself
with a knowledge to safeguard valuable
infrastructure that operates in the
digital realm through a mix of videos
readings and exercises you have learned
about important Concepts and how to
apply them to a business environment you
now have a solid understanding of
penetration testing including how it's
completed and the various stages
involved involved preventative tools
used in cyber security including Azure
firewall premium intrusion detection and
prevention system or idps VPN and Azure
firewall you then dived into the command
line and learned how penetration testers
use it in their testing you even saw the
command line and Powershell in action
where you witnessed the completion of
several administrative tasks used in
penetration testing completing this
course contributes towards gaining the
cyber security analyst professional
certificate from corsera the certificate
not only helps to enhance your skills
but also lays the groundwork for a
career as a cyber security analyst it
serves as proof of your job Readiness
and can be shared with your Professional
Network what's more the program helps
you prepare for the exam
sc900 Microsoft security compliance and
identity fundamentals it has been
meticulously aligned with the essential
job skills necessary NE for cyber
security analyst roles in each course
you'll be able to consolidate what you
have learned by completing an endof
course project that simulates real world
cyber security scenarios when you
complete the professional certificate
you'll have tangible examples to talk
about in job interviews to round off
your learning you'll take a mock exam
that has been set up in a similar style
to the industry recognized sc900 exam
the sc900 exam me measures your ability
to describe the following concepts of
security compliance and identity
capabilities of Microsoft Azure active
directory which is part of the Microsoft
entra capabilities of Microsoft Security
Solutions and the capabilities of
Microsoft compliance solutions to
complete the exam you should be familiar
with Microsoft Azure and Microsoft 365
and understand how Microsoft security
compliance and identity strategies
provide an end to end solution across
these
platforms visit the Microsoft
certifications page at
www.learn.cashtracking.com
you've made great progress but your
journey doesn't end here there's still
much more for you to learn and discover
the Microsoft cyber security analyst
program offers a diverse selection of
courses each tailored to develop
specific skills and knowledge with
topics like Security Administration
compliance management and regulations
and standards the program offers a
comprehensive learning experience
designed to provide you with key
competencies across various Industries
enrolling in another course is a great
opportunity to expand your skill set and
gain expertise in new and exciting areas
of cyber security completing all the
courses in the Microsoft cyber security
analyst program will signal to potential
employers that you are motivated capable
and not afraid to learn new things your
journey of Discovery has required a
great deal of perseverance and you
should take pride in how far you've come
well done on your achievement and
Newfound knowledge it has been a
pleasure to accomp you on this path of
exploration by now you understand that
cyber criminals Target any organization
big or small if their security posture
is not robust they leverage security
vulnerabilities to gain access to
confidential and sensitive information
therefore organizations must comply with
changing laws and Industry standards to
maintain security control and avoid any
breaches this means becoming proactive
and not only reactive by continuously
monitoring and assessing devices Network
works and systems to put measures in
place that detect and mitigate data
breach threats failing to do so can lead
to penalties and mistrust between
customers and
stakeholders this course is designed to
benefit anyone interested in cyber
security whether you aspire to start a
career in the field Advance your cyber
security career or simply brush up on
your skills you'll gain a thorough
understanding of the different
compliance and Industry standards to
ensure you manage your cyber security
with that in mind let's go over what
your Learning Journey covers over the
next coming weeks to begin you'll
explore Security Administration
specifically you'll learn about the
principles of cloud security planning
with security requirements such as the
awareness of access authentication and
authorization management you'll also
learn about Disaster Recovery planning
and data backup for information systems
and services you'll explore the Azure
Cloud adoption framework or CF how to
design a security plan and data
management and administration consisting
of Microsoft's privacy principles this
week concludes with maintaining the
availability and continuity of azure
here you'll discover Concepts including
continuity planning and availability and
resiliency in the following week you
will explore compliance management with
a focus on the importance of data and
Records management you'll begin by
investigating Microsoft perview a
solution that unit data governance
information protection risk management
and compliance
functionalities then compliance
Frameworks and Records will give you the
necessary insight into various
management policies to maintain
compliance you'll address data life
cycle management data loss prevention
information protection managing records
and privacy as well as automated audits
next you'll learn about Insider risk
threat detection and mitigation and
complete an exercise on how to use use
Azure Security Solutions to detect and
respond to threats Microsoft perview has
a feature to monitor Communications and
identify potentially harmful
interactions such as negative or
offensive language you'll realize you
can Implement policies that monitor
infractions like insider trading or
Implement defensive strategies to
determine further incidents furthermore
you'll examine information protection
and the data life cycle in more detail
thereafter you'll comprehend that
regulations are industry and
geopolitical specific with a focus on
Information Security Management act or
isma next you learn about International
Organization for standardization or ISO
standards and how they relate to cyber
security compliance at this stage you'll
realize that the Azure blueprint can be
leveraged to enforce compliance
behaviors the week ends with more about
control objectives for information and
related Technologies or Coit
specifically you'll learn about the
fundamental ele elements and how to
monitor change in the context of nist
which is a National Institute of
Standards and technology cobit and the
Microsoft Azure audit program and
finally you'll apply what you've learned
by creating your own compliance strategy
for the end of course project this will
help you demonstrate your understanding
of the key Concepts and the best
practices for implementing and
maintaining organizational compliance
watch pause RND and re-watch the videos
until you're confident in your skills
then consolidate your knowledge by
Consulting the course readings and
measuring your understanding of key
Topics by completing the different
knowledge checks and quizzes this will
prepare you to take the sc900 exam on
Microsoft security compliance and
identity
fundamentals modern organizations run on
robust but integrate systems with
resources distributed across local and
cloud services this means that
operations must run smoothly even in the
event of an unexpected outage this
outage or failure will have an impact on
the organization as well as the time
taken to recover from it with the ever
increasing Reliance on distributed
systems it is more crucial than ever for
technology dependent businesses to
implement a robust Disaster Recovery
plan establish effective data backup and
practice secure electronic data disposal
in this video you'll discover how a
solution like Microsoft Azure can
provide an Enterprise with Comprehensive
Solutions in these domains azure's
virtual desktop service employs business
continuity and Disaster Recovery or bcdr
strategies to safeguard customer
metadata during outages the service
infrastructure components can switch
over to a backup system or secondary
location to preserve operational
continuity this is known as
failover Azure offers a comprehensive
range of bcdr services including aure
backup and aure site recovery or ASR
you'll explore the role these Solutions
play in the bcdr process a bit later
these services are cost effective secure
and scalable ensuring data protection
and application recovery with low
recovery point and recovery time
objectives azure's cloud-based structure
promotes High availability and
resilience enabling rapid recovery
during disruptions or data corruption in
anticipation of regional outages it's
advisable to replicate personal virtual
machines or VMS to a different Azure
region as a secondary location to ensure
uninterrupted user access in addition
user identities need to be made
accessible at the secondary location
using methods such as profile containers
an alternative to VM replication could
be deploying multiple pooled host pools
across regions these allow for multiple
users to access the host VM at the same
time when strategizing for potential
outages it's essential to account for
various aspects of your it
infrastructure this might include
include a virtual Network to maintain
network connectivity using redundant
connections or automated failover to a
secondary Network virtual machines as
you can replicate VMS or deploy
non-persistent host pools across Azure
regions to keep applications available
and user and app data by using FX
logic's profile containers to replicate
data in a secondary location FS Logics
is a solution for enhancing the user
experience in Virtual desktop Computing
environments
you'll also want to consider user
identities which can be managed by
services like Azure active directory to
remain available during outages and
application dependencies as it is
important to plan for line of business
applications dependencies to fail over
to the secondary location your Disaster
Recovery strategy can be either active
passive or active active based on
resource allocation and cost
considerations in an active active
configuration all systems or locations
are running and serving user traffic
concurrently in contrast an active
passive approach keeps the secondary
Network on standby until it is needed
for failover Azure site recovery
facilities VM replication and failover
allowing a range of options based on VM
configuration next let's go over virtual
machine replication a key element of
Disaster
Recovery this involves creating a copy
of vm's data and state often in a
different geographic location to keep
applications running during an outage or
disaster the Azure site recovery service
facilitates this process supporting
replication both between Azure regions
and from on premises infrastructure to
Azure you can customize your VM
replication based on your needs and VM
setup for instance you could replicate
all VMS using ASR create a new host pool
in the failover region or establish a
host pool with VMS built in both primary
and failover regions availability sets
in Azure which are logical groupings of
VMS are critical for maintaining
application availability ensuring Wim
resources are isolated to minimize the
impact of Hardware or software failures
ASR is easily managed via the Azure
portal and is automatically updated with
new features keeping your VM replication
strategy up to date Azure provides
robust services for data backup
including Azure backup supporting
various workloads like files virtual
machines databases and more this service
offers secure application consistent
backups with encryption for data at rest
and in transit backups are stored in a
geographically distanced location
enhancing protection against data loss
from natural disasters or
outages Azure emphasizes the importance
of well-informed IT staff and users for
efficient and secure operations to this
end it provides a multitude ude of
resources including Azure Knowledge
Center an online resource that answers
frequently asked questions Azure
architecture Center which AIDS in the
design and implementation of azure-based
solutions by offering design patterns
best practices and reference
architectures and Azure blog which keeps
users updated with Azure related news
updates features and expert
articles this video introduced you to
the basics of Disaster Recovery planning
effective data back and secure
electronic data disposal which are
critical tasks for any technology
Reliant business you found that services
like Microsoft Azure provide
comprehensive Solutions in these areas
including azure's virtual Desktop
Service Azure backup and Azure site
recovery the Azure platform also offers
resources in various Azure topics all
these features combined make Azure a
reliable and secure platform for
handling disaster recovery and data
backup while also providing the
necessary training and education for IT
staff and
users in today's datadriven world the
security of information is of utmost
importance with the Advent of cloud
computing corporations are increasingly
moving their operations
online primary concerns around digital
security are data security network
security and physical security by the
end of this video you'll have a
comprehensive understanding of these
aspects and Microsoft assures approach
to securing its infrastructure let's
start with how Azure ensures that data
is protected and how it is disposed when
no longer
needed Microsoft Azure security policy
strictly governs the access to customer
data which is denied by default to
operations and support
Personnel data access is granted on a
need to know basis following a just in
time model under strictly audited
policies aligned with compliance and
privacy standards no user or
administrator has default access to
customer virtual machines and only the
least privilege that's necessary is
granted for tasks all Azure support
Personnel are assigned unique active
directory accounts managed by Microsoft
information technology and multiactor
authentication is required from secure
consols for Access Azure provides robust
data security implementing logical
isolation for data segregation in its
multi-tenant service which ensures
separate storage of customer data and
prevents unauthorized access customers
can encrypt data at rest in Azure with
Solutions such as Azure key Vault disk
encryption and storage service
encryption for intransit data protection
Microsoft provides options such as
virtual private networks transport layer
security and protocols directly on Azure
VMS along with encryption for all Azure
traffic between data centers my
Microsoft also ensures data redundancy
with three different storage options
these are locally redundant storage or
lrs which replicates data three times
synchronously in a single physical
location in the primary region Zone
redundant storage or zrs which
distributes copies across three Azure
availability zones in the primary region
and Geo redundant storage or GRS which
applies lrs and then duplicates these
copies in a secondary region in a
geographically distant location when
data is deleted or a contract is
terminated Microsoft adheres to strict
standards for data deletion and physical
Hardware
destruction Microsoft does not claim
ownership over customer data and does
not monitor the data stored on Azure
lastly for ecovery Azure customers are
responsible for their data preservation
and can request exports from Azure
customer support Microsoft employs nist
880 8 compliant procedures and a wiping
solution for data bearing Services nist
888 is a set of guidelines that specify
how to adequately remove data from
storage media if a hard drive cannot be
wiped it under goes a destruction
process such as disintegration shredding
pulverization or incineration which
makes data recovery
impossible the disposal method is
selected based on the asset type and all
records of Destruction are retained
at the end of A System's life cycle
Microsoft adheres to similar rigorous
data handling and Hardware disposal
procedures to prevent your data from
falling into untrusted hands a secure
eraser method is utilized for compatible
hard drives while those that cannot be
wiped undergo a similar destruction
process next let's move on to the Azure
approach for network security the Azure
Network architecture which is
instrumental in providing connectivity
from the internet interet to Azure data
centers is used across all workloads
deployed on Azure including IAS pass and
SAS it consists of four main components
The Edge Network which serves as a
demarcation point between Microsoft and
other networks enabling internet and
express route peering into Azure the
wide area network a globally spanning
backbone Network that links Azure
regions the regional gateways Network a
point of aggregation for all data
centers within an Azure region providing
High interdata Center connectivity and
the data center Network offering
connectivity between servers within the
data center this network is built with
redundancy at all levels to ensure
maximum availability from physical
Hardware to control
protocols as a modified version of a
multi-stage circuit switching Network
more commonly known as a clause Network
the data center Network minimizes the
impact of of individual Hardware
failures and environmental events it
utilizes OSI model layer 3 routing to
eliminate traffic loops and employs
equal cost multipath or ecmp routing for
high redundancy and bandwidth finally
let's discuss the physical measures
implemented by Microsoft to safeguard
data at its data
centers a dedicated division manages
these facilities utilizing a
multi-layered approach to deter
unauthorized physical access to data and
data center resources security protocols
include previsit access request and
approval based on valid business
justification visitor access controls
with temporary Badges and constant
escorts for
visitors additional measures include
perimeters with tall fences surveillance
cameras and security patrols entry is
monitored by train security officers
while inside the building two Factor
authentication with Biometrics and
stringent access restrictions to
approved areas are
enforced the data center floor itself is
subject to full body metal detection
screenings and video surveillance with
strict controls on device authorization
to prevent unauthorized data
transfer these measures ensure the
highest levels of security at all times
and are the ultimate expression of the
defense in-depth Concepts in this video
you learned how Microsoft Azure applies
a comprehensive multifaceted approach to
security it ensures data security by
strictly controlling and auditing access
implementing logical isolation for data
segregation and offering extensive
encryption capabilities for data add
rest and in transit data disposal
procedures comply with nist 888 and the
maintenance of rigorous data handling
and Hardware disposal standards which
Safeguard against data breaches from
obsolete Hardware the network security
is upheld through a well structured and
resilient Network architecture designed
for Optimal Performance and safety and
azures physical security features
stringent Access Control protocols
secure facility parameters rigorous
surveillance and preventative measures
against unauthorized data transfer these
measures collectively exemplify
Microsoft azure's commitment to
safeguarding its client data integrity
and Trust in the increasingly data
Centric
World in an age where data is a
commodity Enterprise rely on multiple
applications to manage process and
analyze vast amounts of information
however such Arrangements can open doors
to potential vulnerabilities and threats
that can wreak havoc on an
organization fortunately awareness of
the dangers and taking steps to protect
against them can greatly improve your
organization Security in this video
you'll identify common vulnerabilities
and threats to Enterprise applications
become familiar with the fundamentals of
application security and explore the
security risks associated with
Enterprise application integration or
eai this is the practice of connecting
Standalone applications to share data
and work together to automate certain
workflows it is a critical aspect of
modern-day businesses responsible for
ensuring that various applications
within an organization work in
harmony however it comes with a set of
vulnerabilities and
threats understanding the
vulnerabilities and threats that
Enterprise applications face is a first
step in securing them let's identify a
few of them data breaches are a common
outcome of attackers targeting sensitive
data transmitted between
applications in a man-in-the-middle
attack an attacker secretly intercepts
and potentially Alters the communication
between two parties denial of service or
dos is an attack in which the
perpetrator seeks to make a network
resource unavailable by overwhelming it
with traffic and malware and ransomware
attacks involve malicious software that
infiltrates networks sometimes
encrypting data and demanding ransom for
its release but dangers are un limited
to direct attacks as there are also
problems related to insecure
configurations these include API
vulnerabilities as poorly secured apis
can be exploited to gain unauthorized
access to data inadequate authentication
and authorization which allow
unauthorized users to access sensitive
data and authenticated users to access
more data than required and SQL
injection which refers to attackers
manipulating and insecure applications
SQL queries to gain unauthorized access
to a
database there is also cross-site
scripting or xss which occurs when an
attacker indexs malicious scripts into
web pages viewed by other users
compromising their interaction with the
application a security misconfiguration
is when applications and systems are not
configured correctly leaving the
organization susceptible to attacks and
finally you have data exposure meaning
that sensitive data like passwords
financial information or personal data
if not properly encrypted can be exposed
to unauthorized
parties to mitigate the threats that
Enterprise applications face there are
fundamental security practices that
organizations should adopt
implementation of robust authentication
and authorization mechanisms ensures
that users can only access data and
resources that are necessary for their
roles applying the principle of lease
privilege gives users only the
Privileges they need and reduces the
risk of unauthorized data access while
input validation validates and sanitizes
all user inputs to prevent injection
attacks having a secure configuration
means regularly updating and securely
configuring all elements of the
application
ecosystem including firewalls routers
and the applications themselves
encryption of sensitive data both in
transit and addressed ensures that even
access data is
unreadable monitoring and logging means
continuously observing Network and
application
activities detailed logs should be
maintained for future analysis in case
of an incident regular audit should be
conducted to assess vulnerabilities and
patches and updates are best applied
promptly adopting secure coding
practices minimize vulnerabilities in
application
software and having a well-drafted
incident response plan ensures that the
organization can promptly and
effectively address any security issues
that arise lastly integrating
applications increases the complexity of
the system and inadvertently the attack
surface
let's examine some risks specifically
associated with applications
integration for one more applications
mean a more complex Network which can
make it more difficult to maintain
security dependency risks involve
integrated applications that depend on
each other a vulnerability in one
application May propagate through the
system applications integration usually
involves aggregation of data from
various
sources if an attacker gains access to
the integration layer they may have
access to a gold mine of sensitive
information and because middleware is
often employed for integration
vulnerabilities in middleware can expose
the entire integrated
environment in this video you found that
Enterprise application integration can
enhance organizational efficiency but
its intricate nature also makes it
vulnerable to numerous security
threats proactive identification of
common vulnerabilities such as data
breaches API weaknesses and SQL
injections coupled with implementation
of security fundamentals including
robust authentication encryption and
regular audits can fortify the
Enterprise against these strats by
fostering a culture of security
vigilance and continual adaptation to
emerging threats businesses can harness
the immense benefits of application
integration while ensuring the integrity
and security of their critical data and
systems as the digital footprint of
Enterprises expands so does the
necessity for Vigilant Security measures
an essential component of cyber security
is log collection analysis and retention
these tasks are important for detecting
and investigating suspicious activity
identifying patterns of behavior that
may signify a security breach and
supporting incident
response furthermore maintaining logs
ensures compliance with industry
regulations and AIDS in system system
troubleshooting and proactive security
enhancements Microsoft Azure a renowned
cloud computing platform offers
extensive features for managing security
logs in this video you'll explore how
Azure handles security log collection
and Analysis discuss techniques for
using Azure for log retention and delve
into managing thirdparty vender security
and compliance security log collection
and Analysis is a critical component of
assur security that accumulates and
scrutinizes logs for suspicious activity
or security anomalies let's explore the
tools in Azure that makes this possible
Azure monitor empowers users to collect
analyze and act on Telemetry data from
cloud and on premises environments and
then produce logs it allows ingestion of
data from sources like application logs
Windows event logs and Azure activity
logs Azure monitor logs is a feature
that stores and analyzes log data
providing insights and allowing for
troubleshooting issues and understanding
Trends over time Azure Sentinel is
Microsoft's Cloud native security
information and event management or Sim
service it combines security logs and
events across the Enterprise environment
leveraging the scalability and power of
azure to detect analyze and mitigate
security threats in real time log
analytics workspaces are containers that
collate data from Azure monitor logs
they allow users to consolidate large
volumes of data allowing for advanced
searches and applying machine learning
algorithms to Aid in detecting threats
now that you know about the services
used to log and analyze data let's go
over the steps and configurations for
retaining security logs in Azure to
retain logs you'll need to enable and
configure diagonostic settings on the
Azure resource our es this will allow
you to stream log data to different
destinations such as log analytics
workspaces Azure storage accounts or
event hubs you'll also need to create a
log analytics workspace within Azure
monitor to store the logs collected this
workspace will serve as the centralized
repository for your log data Azure
allows you to set data retention
policies for your logs you can Define
the duration for retaining the log data
in your work space which can range from
a few days to several years finally you
should Implement Azure policies to
enforce consistent monitoring and log
retention settings across your resources
this ensures uniformity in log
collection practices within your
organization you should know that
thirdparty vendors can introduce
security risks into your Azure
environment managing their security and
compliance is vital and can be done by
standardizing a few practices conduct a
comprehensive risk assessment before
engaging with vendors evaluate the
vendor security practices and ensure
they align with your organization's
standards Implement role-based access
control or arbac to Grant minimal
necessary permissions to thirdparty
vendors arbac ensures that vendors have
access only to the resources they
require reducing the risk of
unauthorized access use Azure Monitor
and Azure Sentinel to keep an eye on
vendor activities within your
environment setting up alerts for
abnormal or suspicious activities can
help in early detection of security
incidents verify that the thirdparty
vendors adhere to the compliant
standards and regulations that are
pertinent to your industry use Azure
compliance manager to assess and manage
compliance across your Azure environment
periodically review and audit the
security practices of thirdparty vendors
ensure that they are m maintaining high
security standards and complying with
regulations use Azure private link to
ensure that the traffic between Azure
services and users is kept on the
Microsoft network this can reduce
exposure to threats and secure
thirdparty interactions with your Azure
environment ensure that any data shared
with or handled by thirdparty vendors is
encrypted both in transit and address
using Azure key Vault for managing
encryption keys and secrets can enhance
security
collaborate with thirdparty vendors to
establish a well-defined incident
response plan this plan should detail
how to react swiftly and efficiently in
the event of a security breach or any
other incidents and finally ensure that
all security requirements and
obligations are clearly stated in
contractual agreements with thirdparty
vendors this should include compliance
requirements data handling policies and
responsibility in case of a security
breach
in this video you found out why log
collection analysis and retention are
imperative for maintaining a secure and
compliant environment Azure offers
robust tools like Azure monitor logs and
Azure Sentinel for collecting and
analyzing security logs by configuring
retention policies archiving data and
employing backup strategies Enterprises
can effectively use Azure for log
retention however as businesses often
rely on thirdparty vendors it is
critical to manage their security and
compliance diligently Azure features
such as arbac Azure policy and
compliance manager can help in setting
the proper access controls and ensuring
compliance conducting vendor risk
assessments encrypting data and having
an incident response plan are essential
measures moreover defining clear
security obligations in contractual
agreements with thirdparty vendors is a
must
up to now you've been made aware of
Microsoft azure's capabilities as a
comprehensive cloud computing solution
this covers critical needs such as
disaster preparation and Recovery secure
application integration and handling
security logs but what are the
technologies that make all this possible
in this video you'll become familiar
with a range of azure Security Services
tailored for today's
businesses these include Azure front
door which optimizes and secures Global
web applications Azure private link
ensuring private access to Azure
Services Azure key Vault for
safeguarding cryptographic keys and
certificates Azure application Gateway
for web traffic balancing and protection
and Azure policy for managing security
policies over
resources together these tools bolster
the security framework of azure-based
infrastructures
now let's explore each of them one at a
time in Greater depth Azure front door
is an essential component of Microsoft's
Global Edge Network serving as an
application delivery Network or ADN that
offers layer 7 load balancing
capabilities for web applications as a
scalable and secure entry point Azure
front door uses Dynamic site
acceleration or DSA to improve
performance of dynamic websites and
Global load balancing to achieve near
realtime
failover combined with a split TCP based
anycast protocol this ensures Superior
application performance and Rapid
delivery of global web
applications intelligent Health probe
monitoring for backend resources ensures
the availability and reliability of
applications while URL path-based
routing directs requests efficiently and
supports the hosting of multiple
websites Azure front door also features
cookie based based session affinity and
web application firewall alongside
endtoend transport layer security or TLS
for secure communication security being
an indispensable aspect of any web
application is prominently addressed in
assure front door dos protection is
incorporated to safeguard against
distributed denial of service attacks
additionally web application firewall
policies can be used in conjunction with
Azure fror to provide Global protection
for inbound HTTP or https connections
across Azure regions it's also
recommended to configure Azure friendor
with operational excellence in Mind by
ensuring that traffic is re-encrypted
for secure communication to the backend
as a global Service Azure friendor is
not limited to a specific Azure region
thereby serving as a high availability
solution for organizations seeking a
globally scalable application
infrastructure azure private link offers
a secure way to access Azure pass
services and services hosted in Azure
over a private endpoint in your virtual
Network eliminating exposure to the
public internet traffic between your
virtual Network and the service travels
over the Microsoft backbone Network
which provides a robust secure
connection when private link is enabled
on Azure front door premium a private
endpoint is created upon approval the
private link connection is established
and a private IP address is assigned
from the Azure front door managed
virtual Network the establishment of
this private link ensures that incoming
traffic to your origin is secured when
arriving at your azour front door Azure
key Vault offers a secure cloud-based
storage system for cryptographic Keys
certificates and other sensitive data it
enables organizations to tightly control
access to such data and maintain its
confidentiality and
integrity security features include
Network restrictions allowing specific
IP addresses to access the walls aure
private link service integration and TLS
and https protocols to ensure secure
authenticated and authorized
communication organizations should
ensure application accessing the key VA
service run on a platform that supports
TLS 1.2 or a reason wor for optimal
security Azure application Gateway is a
web traffic load balancer that enables
you to manage traffic to your web
applications security features include a
web application firewall which provides
centralized protection of your web
applications from common exploits and
vulnerabilities it also allows secure
sockets layer or SSL termination at the
Gateway reducing the load on internal
servers and improving application
performance Azure policy is a service in
Azure that you use to create assign and
manage
policies these policies enforce
different rules and effects over your
resources helping you maintain corporate
standards and service
compliance Azure policies can control
properties such as locations tags Azure
resources and much more for instance you
can enforce a policy that only allows
the creation of storage accounts with
secure transfer enabled enhancing data
security Azure policy is also integrated
with Azure security Center and Azure
advisor offering additional insights and
recommendations for resource Security in
this video you became aware of Microsoft
azures assortments of robust reliable
and flexible Security Services that help
businesses Safeguard their Cloud
environments Azure front door Azure
private link Azure key Vault Azure
application Gateway
and Azure policy offer a comprehensive
toolkit for a secure infrastructure
protecting sensitive data and
applications in today's ever evolving
threat landscape harnessing the power of
these Services is imperative for any
organization seeking to maintain the
security and integrity of their cloud
deployments in the constantly evolving
landscape of modern Enterprise
organizations are steadily embracing the
cloud as an Avenue for Innovation
scalability and
efficiency Azure Cloud adoption
framework or calf emerges as an integral
part of this journey aiding businesses
to navigate the cloud adoption life
cycle skillfully in this video you'll
explore Azure CF as well as best
practices for planning design identity
and access management you'll further
learn about the integration of azure
into an existing it environment Azure C
is an all-encompassing framework that
consolidates best practices
documentation and tools it Fosters an
environment where Cloud Architects it
professionals and business decision
makers can effectively achieve their
Cloud adoption
objectives Azure CF is a comprehensive
approach that encompasses a spectrum of
methodologies it uses the following
methodologies to support organizations
throughout the cloud adoption life cycle
manage govern and
organize essentially it combines the
wisdom of Microsoft partners and
customers to provide tools guidance and
narratives that shape strategy plan
ready migrate innovate and secure
technology business and people
strategies this contributes to
delivering optimal business outcomes
through Cloud adoption let's explore the
cloud adoption framework life cycle a
bit further
the Microsoft cloud adoption framework
for Azure is designed to support
organizations through the entire life
cycle of cloud adoption through a range
of
methodologies each methodology is aimed
at addressing specific aspects of the
cloud adoption journey and helps
organizations overcome common challenges
here is an overview of the life cycle
covering the following nine phases
strategy focuses on defining the
business justification for adopting
client Technologies this involves
understanding the business objectives
and determining the expected outcomes of
cloud
adoption plan involves developing
actionable adoption plans that are
aligned with business outcomes this
might include creating a timeline
defining resource requirements and
identifying the key Milestones ready is
a phase where the organization prepares
the cloud environment for the plan
changes this includes setting up the
required infrastructure and ensuring
that the cloud environment is configured
according to the organization's
requirements migrate is where the
organization begins migrating and
modernizing existing workloads to the
cloud it includes the actual movement of
data applications and other elements
from the on premises environment to the
cloud innovate follows the migration
face and shifts Focus to developing new
Cloud native or hybrid Solutions next is
secure and as you know security is is an
ongoing
process this phase focuses on
continuously improving security measures
to protect data and applications in the
cloud
environment manage involves managing the
operations for cloud and hybrid
Solutions it specifically includes
monitoring Performance Management and
ensuring that the cloud environment is
running efficiently govern is about
implementing policies and controls to
manage and monitor Cloud resources
effectively and finally organize allows
the organization to align teams and
roles supporting Cloud adoption efforts
such as ensuring clear communication and
well- defined roles and responsibilities
the development life cycle also plays an
important role particularly when it
comes to adopting Cloud Technologies it
encompasses considerations and
recommendations for repository
strategies brand strategies automated
bills deployments and roll backs during
automatic Landing Zone creation note
that in this context a roll back
strategy during automatic Landing Zone
creation means having a plan to revert
The Landing zone to its previous state
if there are issues during its automatic
creation for example adopting a version
control system like git is recommended
for flexibility in code sharing and
management the cloud adoption framework
brings together best practices
documentation tools and assessment ments
to enable a structured approach to Cloud
adoption this helps organizations in
better aligning their business and
Technical strategies ensuring success in
their Cloud adoption Journey one
critical area in Cloud adoption is
planning and design it's always a good
idea to follow best practices to ensure
success in these
areas calf provides best practices and
formulating strategies planning
actionable adoption preparing cloud
envir ments migrating existing workloads
developing new Solutions security
Improvement management of cloud and
hybrid Solutions governance and
organization it's important to Define
business justification and expected
outcomes additionally prepare the cloud
environment to accommodate planned
changes by setting up management
security governance tools and putting
operational compliance policies in place
organizations must must establish a
landing Zone that incorporates security
governance and
compliance furthermore they should be
ready to migrate and modernize existing
workloads while innovating through
developing new Cloud native or hybrid
Solutions this ensures sustainability of
the adopted Cloud
architecture you're familiar with
identity and access management or IM am
using I IM in the Azure CF establishes a
foundation for managing identity and
access at its core IIM ensures that only
authorized individuals can access the
right resources at the right time for
the right
reasons this is achieved through
identity authentication and
authorization
controls IM am also acts as boundary
Security in the public Cloud Azure
active directory or Azure ad is at the
heart of identity management and
provides a base level of access control
and identity management for Azure
resources
the level of integration with an
existing on premises identity
infrastructure can be achieved through
options like directory synchronization
and active directory Federation services
so what are the considerations when
integrating Azure into an existing it
environment well first consider the
identity integration requirements these
requirements hinge on factors such as
the complexity of the organization's on
premises active directory infrastructure
and the necessity for a consistent set
of identities groups and roles between
on premises and Cloud environments
additionally support for applications
that depend on Legacy authentication
mechanisms might necessitate deploying
active directory domain services in the
cloud the integration process should be
iterative allowing for gradual
refinement and maturation of the cloud
identity solution in this video you
learn that Azure Cloud adoption
framework plays a vital role in ensuring
a smooth and effective Cloud adoption
process you also learned about best
practices to help align Business and
Technology strategies specifically
planning and design and identity and
access management are critical
components you then conclude it with the
integration of azure into an existing it
environment security is a critical
aspect of any Cloud adoption journey and
the Microsoft cloud adoption framework
or CF for Azure provides a comprehensive
approach to address security
considerations as organizations embrace
the cloud they must ensure that their
data applications and infrastructure are
protected from potential threats the
Microsoft cloud adoption framework or
calf offers a structured methodology to
guide organizations in implementing
security measures that align with their
business goals and
objectives in this video you'll explore
five key points of security in the Azure
calf this includes access control with a
zero trust approach security operations
focusing on detection including response
and Recovery asset protection strategies
security governance for maintaining a
consistent security posture and
Innovative security practices that align
with operational
practices let's begin with Access
Control utilizing a zero trust
approach in the Azure calf Access
Control plays a critical role in
ensuring the security and integrity of
cloud resources and services by
utilizing the zero trust model the
framework promotes a more rigorous
approach to security by operating on the
assumption that threats can exist both
outside and within an organization's
Network this means that trust is never
assumed and verification is required
from everyone trying to access resources
in the network regardless of whether
they are within an organization's
parameter or
not the principles of zero trust include
assuming a breach is always possible it
explicitly verifies the identity and
context of the user or device requesting
access and adheres to the principle of
least privilege to perform their
functions this approach coincides with
robust authentication mechanisms which
may include multiactor authentication
and stringent authorization policies
that Define what actions users can
perform with the accessible data by
doing so the zero trust model in azour
CF adds security layers that minimize
the risk of unauthorized access and data
breaches this creates a more resilient
and secure Cloud environment let's
examine security operations involving
detection response and
Recovery effective security operations
are crucial for identifying mitigating
and recovering from security incidents
in the cloud
the Azure calf emphasizes the importance
of detection response and Recovery
capabilities organizations should
Implement robust monitoring systems
leverage threat intelligence establish
incident response plans to detect
security threats respond promptly to
incidents and recover their systems to a
secure state by adopting proactive
security operations practices
organizations begin to minimize the
impact of security breaches and maintain
the Integrity of their Cloud
environment this begins with security
operations or secops culture seops
performed by Engineers are considered
the most valuable Assets Now seops
culture emphasizes the integration of
security operations with an
organization's mission and
goals there are three key cultural
elements that form the foundation of an
effective seops culture the first is
Mission alignment security operations
should always have a clear understanding
of how their work connects to the
overall organization's mission and
goals next is continuous learning
security operations involves detailed
work with constant changes because
attackers are creative and persistent
it's critical to continuously learn and
work to automate highly repetitive or
highly manual tasks these types of tasks
can quickly wear down morale and team
effectiveness
ensure that the culture rewards learning
finding and fixing these pain points
finally there's teamwork working alone
with security operations isn't effective
nor efficient nobody is as smart as the
whole team together teamwork also makes
a high pressure working environment more
enjoyable and productive it's important
that everyone support each other learn
from one another share insights and
coordinate and check each other's work
next is asset protection which involves
implementing strategies and measures to
safeguard critical Assets in the cloud
organizations must identify their
valuable data applications and
infrastructure components and Implement
appropriate security controls to protect
them from unauthorized access data
breaches and other security
risks this includes implementing
encryption data classification and data
loss prevention
mechanisms by prior prizing asset
protection organizations reduce the risk
of data loss ensure compliance with
regulatory requirements and maintain the
confidentiality integrity and
availability of their
resources the Microsoft cloud adoption
framework emphasizes the need for
organizations to establish clear
security policies procedures and
controls to comply with security
standards and regulatory requirements so
how do you maintain a consistent
security post posture well security
governance is essential for maintaining
a consistent and upto-date security
posture in the cloud by regularly
assessing the security posture
conducting Audits and implementing
security best practices organizations
can mitigate risks address
vulnerabilities and maintain a strong
security posture throughout their Cloud
adoption
Journey Innovation is a driving force in
the cloud environment and security must
align with all operational practices to
ensure effective protection the
Microsoft cloud adoption framework
recognizes the importance of integrating
security with devops practices also
referred to as Dev SEC Ops it's
important to align security approaches
with operational processes by embedding
security controls and considerations
into the development and deployment
pipelines organizations can foster a
culture of security and enable
continuous security improvements this
approach allows organizations to balance
security requirements with business
enablement goals and drive innovation
without compromising on security in this
video you learned about the five key
points of security in the Azure Cloud
adoption framework this includes access
control with a zero trust approach
security operations focusing on
detection with response and Recovery
asset protection strategies security
governance for maintaining a consistent
security posture and Innovative security
practices that align with operational
practices You Now understand that
security is a critical aspect of any
Cloud adoption journey and the Microsoft
cloud adoption framework for Azure
provides a comprehensive approach to
address security
considerations in an age where data
breaches and cyber attacks are rampant
data privacy is of Paramount importance
as a technology leader Microsoft employs
six governing princi principles for
managing data to ensure that privacy is
respected these are control transparency
security legal protections no
content-based targeting and benefits for
the customer in this video you'll be
introduced to each of these principles
and discover how together they serve as
a road map for best practices in
administering and managing customer
data let's start with
control control as a principle puts the
power in the hands of the users
Microsoft gives users the ability to
manage data collection and usage this
includes data localization which means
deciding where data resides and access
control which allows users to determine
who can access it empowering users to
have control over their data is
essential in establishing trust and
ensuring that data handling is aligned
with user
preferences your control is reinforced
by Microsoft compliance with broadly
applicable privacy laws and privacy
standards transparency is vital in
enabling users to make informed
decisions regarding their data Microsoft
upholds this principle by keeping users
well informed about how their data is
collected processed and
shared reports are published on
government requests for data and
resources are available for users to
learn more about Microsoft's privacy
practices transparent operations allow
users to be cognizant of how their data
is utilized which is crucial for
building trust with the growing presence
of cyber threats strong security is more
important than ever Microsoft employs
robust security measures such as
encryption and firewalls to protect
customer data moreover their security
development life cycle or sdl ensures
continuous evaluation and enhancement of
security features
sdl refers to a set of 12 practices that
help organizations stay compliant with
regulations and meet security Assurance
standards these practices are providing
training defining security requirements
defining metrics and compliance
reporting performing threat modeling
establishing design requirements and
defining and using cryptography
standards businesses should also manage
the security risk of thirdparty compon
components use approved tools perform
static analysis security testing perform
Dynamic analysis security testing
perform penetration testing and
establish a standard incident response
process by prioritizing security
Microsoft minimizes the risk of data
breaches and unauthorized access hence
safeguarding the integrity and
confidentiality of customer
data state-of-the-art encryption
protects your data both add rest and in
transit and encryption protocols erect
barriers against unauthorized access to
the
data this includes two or more
independent encryption layers to protect
against compromises of any one layer all
Microsoft managed encryption keys are
secured and work with Azure key Vault to
help you control access to passwords
encryption keys and other
Secrets Microsoft upholds local privacy
laws and advocates for the legal
protection of privacy as a basic human
right they Safeguard user data through
meticulously outlined response policies
established processes and strong
contractual commitments resorting to
legal recourse when
necessary Microsoft maintains that all
government requests for user data should
be directed towards the user they do not
provide any government with direct or
unrestricted access to customer data nor
do they disclose close data to a
government or law enforcement agency
unless directed by the user or required
by law when user data is requested the
user is promptly informed and given a
copy of the request unless legally
prohibited Microsoft pledges not to use
data for advertising purposes and
restricts disclosure to government
agencies this is crucial in an era where
content-based targeting is a common
practice businesses must make a similar
commit m not to exploit customer data
for purposes that haven't been
explicitly agreed
upon Microsoft does not engage in using
email chat files or other personal
content for the purpose of targeting
advertising Microsoft does not share
user data with Advertiser supported
Services nor do they mine the data for
any purposes such as marketing research
or
advertising when Microsoft does collect
data it's used to benefit customers and
make their experiences better for
example data may be gathered for
troubleshooting for the prevention
detection and repairing of problems
affecting operations of services
Improvement of features including
increasing reliability and protection of
services and data and providing better
customer experiences in this video you
were introduced to the six governing
principles that Microsoft adheres to for
data
management these are control
transparency security legal protections
no content-based targeting and benefits
for the
customer so what is the result of these
principles it means that users are
empowered trust is built data is secured
with encryption and firewalls user
rights are upheld privacy is respected
and users gain a better service
experience collectively these principles
form a robust framework that sets a high
standard for data privacy and should
Inspire businesses to adopt similar
practices for a more secure and privacy
conscious
ecosystem in today's digital age data
security and compliance are at the heart
of any organization's
operations as businesses increasingly
turn to cloud services for a range of
functionalities the need for Reliable
and secure platforms is Paramount one
such platform is a Microsoft service
trust portal or STP a comprehensive
resource providing tools and content to
ensure the security and compliance of
Microsoft's cloud
services in this video you will be
introduced to the users privacy tools
the compliance manager and Industry and
Regional information features of the
service trust
portal let's start with a brief
overview you can access the portal by
logging in with your Microsoft cloud
services account and accepting a
non-disclosure agreement once inside you
can explore various sections in
including certifications regulations and
standards reports white papers and
artifacts industry and Regional
resources and resources for your
organization the portal contains a
comprehensive document library that you
can filter Based on data and cloud
service it also allows for the saving of
relevant documents to a personal library
and provides notifications for
updates to cater to a global audience
the portals supports multiple languages
and encourages users to provide feedback
continually aiming to enhance the user
experience now let's explore the uses of
the service trust portal the service
trust portal true to its name Fosters
trust by enabling transparency and
control over data and its security one
of the Portal's main uses is offering
access to a wide array of audit reports
and white papers which can help in
understanding the security and
compliance mechanisms in in place these
resources also extend to Microsoft's
range of products such as Azure
Microsoft 365 Dynamics 365 and
windows Additionally the portal assists
organizations in keeping up with the
evolving regulatory landscape with
sections dedicated to regulations and
standards it provides a readily
accessible repository of documents
related to Industry and Regional
compliance
requirements one of the standout
features of the service trust portal is
is its focus on privacy and
compliance Microsoft has made a
commitment to data privacy as part of
its core values to achieve this the
service trust portal includes a newly
introduced privacy area that offers
guidance on responding to personal data
breaches and tools for handling data
subject requests notably the data
subject requests or DSR section helps
you to locate export and erase data
across Microsoft's cloud services this
this is crucial for organizations
looking to comply with regulations such
as a general data protection regulation
or gdpr which place significant emphasis
on individuals rights to control their
data Additionally the portal offers data
protection impact assessments or dpas
providing the information needed to
create dpas that evaluate data
protection risks associated with various
data processing activities another
instrumental component of the service
trust portal is the compliance manager
this feature measures and assists you in
tracking your progress in completing
compliance
activities especially relevant in the
context of gdpr compliance manager is
equipped with tools and assessments that
are integrated into the updated gdpr
detailed assessment
toolkit this proves invaluable for
organizations aiming to maintain a high
standard of compliance with complex
regulations another crucial aspect is
how the the service trust portal
includes information specific to
different Industries and
regions this is significant because
regulations and compliance requirements
can vary based on industry and location
having access to tailored information
ensures that you can remain compliant
with the specific requirements that
pertain to your industry or
region this section includes documents
that apply to the following Industries
and Regions Financial Services
containing resources elaborating Reg
Regulatory Compliance guidance by
country or Region Healthcare and Life
Sciences detailing capabilities offered
by Microsoft for the healthcare industry
media and entertainment containing media
and entertainment industry resources
United States government providing
resources exclusively for US Government
customers and Regional resources
containing documents describing
compliance of Microsoft's online
services with various Regional policies
and regulations
in this video you learn that the
Microsoft service trust portal stands as
an indispensable Ally for organizations
seeking to bolster their data security
and compliance measures in the era of
cloud
services with its many resources
including audit reports white papers and
Industry and region specific information
it paves the way for enhanced
transparency and control over data the
addition of specialized tools such as
the compliance management
helped to facilitate adherence to
regulations like gdpr the service trust
portal helps to safeguard user data and
Foster a culture of trust and compliance
in an increasingly interconnected world
in the modern business landscape where
digital transformation and Cloud
adoption are at the Forefront security
remains a Paramount concern with the
rapid acceleration of cloud technology
the potential attack surface for cyber
threats has expanded necess fac itting
the development of advanced security
mechanisms one such mechanism is cloud
security posture management or CPM a
fundamental element Incorporated within
Microsoft Defender for cloud in this
video you'll delve into the main
features of cspm and its integration
with Microsoft Defender for cloud let's
begin with a brief overview cspm is a
security solution focused on maintaining
and enhancing cloud environment security
through continuous assessment monitoring
and
automation it provides insights into the
existing security status giving guidance
on how to improve and maintain secure
Cloud
configurations cspm has gained
prominence for its ability to mitigate
risks and maintain compliance by
managing security policies and detecting
configuration drifts Microsoft Defender
for cloud integrates cspm as a
fundamental component Defender for cloud
evaluates resources subscriptions and
organizations for security issues and
represents the security posture through
a secure score where a higher score
indicates a lower risk level cspm in
defend of a cloud features both
foundational and optional enhancements
foundational capabilities include
security recommendations asset inventory
and secure score the optional
enhancements include attack path
analysis
Cloud security Explorer Advanced threat
hunting and security governance
capabilities among
others while the foundational cspm
capabilities are free optional features
are part of the defender cspm plan that
incurs charges for servers databases and
storage
resources now that you've had an
overview of cspm let's explore how it
integrates with Microsoft Defender for
cloud in more detail mic Microsoft
Defender for cloud is a unified Cloud
native application protection platform
offering extensive security for
multicloud and hybrid
environments it ensures unified
visibility of security posture across
multiple cloud services and provides
realtime access to critical risks and
context aware Cloud
security by integrating CPM Defender for
cloud enables continuous assessments of
multicloud environments it monitors
security postures with secure scores and
provides visibility and contextual
insights Additionally the integration
helps in conducting proactive attack
path analysis managing security policies
and implementing security governance
Defender for cloud uses the policies to
periodically analyze the compliant
status of your resources to identify
potential security misconfigurations and
weaknesses it then provides you with
recommendations on how to remediate
those
issues recommendations are the result of
assessing your resources against
relevant policies and identifying
resources that don't meet your defined
requirements Defender for cloud makes
its security recommendations based on
your chosen
initiatives recommendations are actions
for you to take to secure and Harden
your resources each recommendation
provides you with the following
information a brief description of the
issue the remediation steps to carry out
to implement the recommendation and the
affected resources Defender for cloud
cspm is also equipped with agentless and
agent-based vulnerability scanning which
is crucial for identifying
vulnerabilities in Cloud resources
without requiring agents to be installed
additionally prioritized security alerts
and automated workflows enable quick
detection and resp response to threats
another area where this integration is
particularly beneficial is devops
through Defender for cloud cspm
organizations can enable governance for
devops related recommendations by
activating the defender cspm plan on the
azzure subscription hosting the devops
connector this ensures centralized
insights for multi-pipeline and
multicloud devops thereby improving
application development Security in this
video you learned how the integration of
cspm in Microsoft Defender for cloud
provides an Innovative approach to
fortifying Cloud Security in today's
digitally driven business environment
through continuous monitoring
assessments and compliance evaluations
cspm equips organizations with the tools
necessary for maintaining secure Cloud
configurations and responding swiftly to
vulnerabilities Microsoft Defender for
clouds integration with csbm ensures a
more cohesive context aware security
platform across multicloud and hybrid
ecosystems moreover by providing
actionable recommendations and offering
both agentless and agent-based
vulnerability scanning it facilitates a
more proactive stance in security
governance particularly the integration
contribution to securing devops
highlights its indispensability in
safeguarding not just the present but
also the future of cloud
computing in an age where cloud
computing is revolutionizing the way
organizations operate resource
governance plays an essential role in
ensuring efficient and secure management
of cloud resources Microsoft Azure
offers a suite of governance
capabilities that Empower organizations
to maintain control over their resources
and
applications in this video you'll learn
about resource governance in Azure and
explore Azure policy Azure Blueprints
and Microsoft
perview let's begin by examining assure
governance which encompasses a range of
services and components that help you
control and manage your Cloud resources
efficiently understanding and
implementing these capabilities are
prerequisites for maintaining the health
and security of cloud infrastructure
with azure's Advanced set of governance
capabilities you can Implement effective
Resource Management strategies through
components like Azure management groups
Azure policy Azure blue blueprints Azure
resource graph and cost
management additionally for applications
involving containers and services Azure
service fabric enables resource
governance to ensure Fair allocation of
resources among
Services next let's explore Azure policy
which is a pivotal component in resource
governance that enables policy
enforcement throughout the Azure
environment through Azure policy you can
Define policies for resources and uring
compliance with corporate standards and
regulatory requirements for example you
can set policies to ensure that virtual
machines comply with specific
configurations or that database Services
enforce a certain level of
security the Azure policy service allows
you to assess the compliance state of
your resources and take corrective
actions when resources are non-compliant
it evaluates the properties of resources
in Azure and Arc enabled resources
against business rules
these rules described in Json format can
be grouped into policy definitions or
initiatives and assigned to different
Scopes like management groups
subscriptions or individual
resources Azure policy continuously
evaluates resources and can automate
responses to non-compliance such as
denying changes or deploying compliant
resources while aszure policy focuses on
resource compliance Azure role-based
access control or arbac manage es user
permissions and actions both should be
used in tandem for comprehensive control
and governance in Azure now let's
examine Azure blueprints which aims to
streamline the process of setting up
governed
environments Azure blueprints is a
service that enables you to define a
repeatable set of azure Resources with
specific configurations and policies it
enables the orchestration of resource
deployments and configurations in a
compliant and scalable manner you can
create templates that include resource
groups permissions policies and more to
ensure consistency and compliance across
multiple
environments it enables development
teams to swiftly provision new
environments while ensuring adherence to
organizational compliance requirements
blueprints incorporate various
components such as role assignments
policy assignments Azure resource
manager or armm templates and resource
groups and replicates them across
multiple Azure regions for low latency
and high availability in addition Azure
blueprints preserves the relationship
between blueprint definitions and
assignments facilitating better tracking
and auditing of
deployments while Azure blueprints
ensures compliant deployment Azure
policy is recommended for continuous
monitoring of resources to maintain
compliance finally let's explore
Microsoft perview which is a
comprehensive data governance service
that enables you to manage and secure
data across on premises multicloud and
software as a service or SAS
environments it enables the creation of
a data map through automated Discovery
sensitive data classification and
tracking of data
lineage the purview data catalog
facilitates data Discovery by employing
filters such as glossery terms
sensitivity labels and classifications
additionally data estate insights
provide an overview of the data
landscape enabling data and security
officers to monitor sensitive data and
its
movement perview also features data
sharing capabilities and access policy
management for regulating access to
various Data Systems in this video you
learned how Microsoft Azure offers a
powerful Suite of governance tools Azure
policy Azure Blueprints and Microsoft
perview which are integral in the modern
cloud computing landscape Azure policy
ensures compliance through continuous
evaluation of resources against
organizational standards while Azure
blueprint facilitates streamlined and
compant deployment of azure
resources Microsoft perview on the other
hand provides robust data governance by
helping you map manage and secure data
across various
environments together these tools enable
you to make maintain efficient secure
and compliant management of cloud
resources which is crucial for realizing
the full potential of cloud
computing have you witnessed a business
suffering downtime after an unforeseen
Cyber attack compromising its functions
and
services in a technology dependent world
with cyber crime constantly evolving
ensuring that systems and services
remain accessible and functional even in
the face of adversity is Paramount in
this video you'll learn about two
crucial Concepts availability and
continuity you'll gain an overview of
how these concepts are integral to
Modern businesses additionally you'll
discover how Microsoft Azure achieves
availability and continuity by employing
regions and zones let's start with
availability availability refers to the
accessibility and functionality of
systems and services it means that the
systems are up and running efficiently
and are accessible when needed for
example a website is considered
available if users can access it without
encountering server
errors in cloud computing availability
is often a product of reliable
infrastructure Microsoft Azure
prioritizes the availability of critical
environment infrastructure through
reliable building blocks thorough
controls effective Health monitoring and
robust maintenance programs azure's
reliability is underpinned by its
extensive Global Network of data centers
which are strategically distributed
across various regions
worldwide each Azure region is a set of
data centers located within a latency
defined parameter and connected through
a dedicated Regional low latency
Network this design allows Azure to
provide High availability and low
latency ensuring optimal service
performance the Azure platform
categorizes its services into three
types based on their characteristics of
availability these are Zone redundant
Services zonal services and non-zonal
services Zone redundant services are
replicated across availability zones in
a region providing resilience against
Zone level failures these Services
include Azure SQL database Azure storage
and Azure kubernetes service among
others zonal services on the other hand
are pinned to a specific availability
Zone and can be manually replicated
across zones for higher
availability examples of these Services
include Azure virtual machines and
managed diss thirdly non-zonal services
are those that are deployed region-wide
and do not reside in a specific Zone
these services such as Azure traffic
manager and Azure active directory are
inherently resilient and designed to be
available despite potential Zone level
failures
now that you know what availability
entails let's unpack
continuity continuity goes beyond
availability it involves strategies and
plans to ensure that critical business
functions continue to operate or can
quickly recover after a disaster or
failure this includes having backups
Disaster Recovery plans and alternative
processing
facilities Microsoft Azure exemplifies
continuity through its Azure business
continuity man management or BCM
program BCM focuses on customer Centric
resilience and continuous Improvement
through people processes and
Technology Azure is renowned for its
robust and highly regarded business
continuity Management
program the primary objective of this
program is to enhance the resilience and
Recovery capabilities of all services
that are able to independently
recover these Services can either be
customer facing form part of azures
offerings or they can be internal
services that support the
platform understanding business
continuity involves recognizing that
many offerings consist of multiple
services in azures ecosystem each
service is distinctly identified using
specific tools and serves as the metric
for privacy security inventory risk
business continuity management and other
functions to accurately gauge a Services
capabilities it's essential to consider
the three key elements of people process
and Technology irrespective of the type
of service consider the following
illustrative
representation elements like people
involved in the service and necessary
for service support process which is any
procedure required to carry out tasks
supporting the service and Technology
delivering the service or is a service
itself amalgamates to create a service
that adds value for a Cloud
user so in the case of a people-based
business process like a help desk or
team the service delivery is their
function these individuals utilize
processes and Technology to execute the
service when it comes to technology as a
service such as Azure virtual machines
the service delivery comprises the
technology along with the people and
processes that facilitate its operation
now let's discuss the interplay of
availability and continuity in
Azure Azure takes a comprehensive
approach to availability and continuity
by incorporating these Concepts into its
data centers through regions and
zones Azure regions are sets of data
centers located in specific Geographic
locations each region is made up of
multiple data centers and offers a high
level of availability and lower Network
latency for services running in that
geographic
area within regions Azure has
availability zones these are unique
physical locations with independent
Power Cooling and
networking if one zone experiences
issues the others remain operational
ensuring the availability of
applications and
data azures BCM program plays a critical
role in ensuring service
continuity the program conducts
comprehensive testing including region
shutdowns and Zone loss
simulations this testing ensures
recoverability and helps in honing
incident response procedures so Services
remain highly available and
reliable azure's approach to critical
environment infrastructure availability
makes data centers themselves
reliable by investing in reliability
engineering and collaborating with
vendors for risk evaluations and
continuous Improvement Azure proactively
addresses risks in its data centers this
effort contributes significant ly to
both the availability and continuity of
the services that Azure
provides in this video you learn about
availability and continuity as two
fundamental pillars for maintaining
seamless business
operations you learned about azure's
business continuity Management program
that emphasizes people processes and
Technology the integration of this
program with service specific tools and
mechanisms contributes significantly to
azures resilience recovery capabilities
and overall service
value as cloud computing evolves it's
important to understand the division of
responsibilities Microsoft Azure
operates on a shared responsibility
model this model outlines the service
level responsibilities between Microsoft
and its customers and ensures a clear
understanding of who is accountable for
what in this video you'll gain insight
into the shared responsibility model in
Azure you'll also explore the division
of service level responsibilities and
the significance of compliance in
business continuity
planning let's start by examining the
shared responsibility model several
services offered by Azure necessitate
that customers establish Disaster
Recovery across multiple regions a task
that falls outside Microsoft
scope not all Azure Services come with
automatic data replication or failover
capabilities from one malfunctioning
region to another active one in such
instances the owners is on the customer
to set up recovery and
replication while Microsoft guarantees
the availability of fundamental
infrastructure and platform Services
certain usage scenarios may require
customers to replicate their deployments
and storage across multiple
regions these instances are typical of
the shared responsibility model which
serves as a crucial element in your
business continuity and disaster
recovery planning now let's explore the
division of responsibility in a
traditional on premises data center the
entire stack is under your control
however when transitioning assets to the
cloud certain responsibilities shift to
Microsoft here the division of
responsibility between you and Microsoft
is depicted depending on the deployment
type a practical illustration of the
shared responsibility model is the
deployment of virtual
machines suppose a customer desires to
establish cross region replication for
resilience in case of a regional
failure they then need to create a
duplicate set of virtual machines in
another active region the customer is
responsible for this as Azure does not
automatically replicate these services
in the event of a failure the customer
must either have a procedure to manually
switch primary regions or employ a
traffic manager to detect and
automatically fail over the Shar
responsibility model in Azure is a
framework that defines the roles and
responsibilities of Microsoft and its
customers in managing and controlling
Cloud resources this model is not a
one-size fits-all instead it varies
depending on the service model which may
be infrastructure as a service or IAS
platform as a service or pass or
software as a service or SAS let's
expand upon this in an isas model
Microsoft takes responsibility for the
underlying infrastructure including
physical Hardware Network and data
center operations customers are however
responsible for the management of their
data endpoints accounts and access
controls in A Pas model Microsoft
extends its responsibilities to include
the operating system middleware and
runtime
environment customers are still
responsible for their applications and
data but they are relieved from the
burden of managing the underlying infr
infastructure in a SAS model Microsoft
assumes most of the responsibility
managing everything from the
infrastructure to the
applications customers are only
responsible for managing their data and
user
access understanding these service level
responsibilities is crucial for
customers to ensure they're adequately
protecting their resources and data it
helps them identify potential security
gaps and take necessary measures to
mitigate risks
now that you're up to speed on the
shared responsibility model and the
division of responsibility let's explore
business continuity
compliance this tool helps service
owners to define the service properties
conduct a business impact analysis map
dependencies identify the workforce list
external suppliers and rate recovery
every service in Azure is required to
complete business continuity Disaster
Recovery or bcdr records using the the
Azure business continuity manager tool
this tool helps service owners service
properties Define the service and how
disaster recovery and resiliency are
achieved the business impact analysis
helps Define the recovery time objective
or RTO and Recovery Point objective
known as RPO based on the services
criticality however Microsoft doesn't
publish RTO or rpos for services because
these are internal
measures the dependencies of each
service are mapped to ensure they
operate smoothly the workforce
supporting the service is identified to
avoid single points of
failure Microsoft maintains a list of
external suppliers and measures their
capabilities to ensure a thirdparty
outage doesn't disrupt any Azure
Services now regarding the recovery
rating it measures several key elements
to create a resiliency score Azure
requires every every service to have a
detailed recovery plan and to test that
plan as if the service has failed due to
a catastrophic
outage so when the customer is
responsible for setting up Disaster
Recovery Azure provides public facing
documentation for
guidance once a service has completed
its bcdr record it must be submitted for
approval Microsoft and Azure conduct
extensive testing for both disaster
recovery and availability Zone r
services are self- tested in a
production or pre-production
environment pull the plug type testing
is done in Canary environments that are
fully deployed regions matching
production Canary environments are where
new features are tested with a small
number of users during these tests Azure
uses the same production process for
detection notification response and
Recovery this includes Services where
the customer is responsible for setting
up Disaster Recovery by using Microsoft
public facing
documentation in this video you learned
that in the intricate landscape of cloud
computing the shared responsibility
model in Azure plays a pivotal role in
defining the division of
responsibilities between Microsoft and
its
customers this model varying across iaz
Pas and SAS ensures that customers
understand their role in managing and
protecting their resources and data it
also highlights the importance of
business continuity compliance where
Azure provides tools and guidance for
customers to establish disaster recovery
and conduct necessary tests as customers
transition their assets to the cloud
understanding this shared responsibility
model becomes crucial in identifying
potential security gaps mitigating risks
and ensuring smooth operation regions
and availability zones in Azure provide
an infrastructure that guarantees High
availability and Disaster
Recovery this robust system is designed
to ensure that Services remain online
even when unexpected events occur in
this video you'll explore how Azure
delivers reliable service offerings
through regions and availability zones
Microsoft Azure offers services in
multiple Geographic areas around the
world known as regions each region
consists of one or more data Cent
centers equipped with Power Cooling and
networking these regions provide
customers with the flexibility to run
their applications and services close to
specific geographical locations where
their customers are ensuring Optimal
Performance and user
experience to further enhance
reliability Azure provides availability
zones availability zones are physical
separate locations within a region each
housing its own independent power
Cooling and networking to safeguard
against data center
failures with availability zones you can
design and operate applications and
databases that automatically transition
between zones without
interruption asure availability zones
are highly available fault tolerant and
more scalable than traditional single or
multiple data center
infrastructures Azure provides the most
extensive Global footprint of any cloud
provider and is rapidly opening new
regions and availability zones Azure has
availability zones in every country or
region in which it operates a data
center region there are multiple regions
that currently support availability
zones within the Americas Europe Middle
East Africa and Asia Pacific you can
examine the specific regions a bit later
in additional resources there are also
special regions within Azure that you
may wish to use when building
applications for compliance or legal
purposes these special regions include
US Government Virginia and US Government
Iowa that's a physical and logical
Network isolated instance of azure for
US government agencies and partners with
additional compliance certifications
such as the federal risk and
authorization Management program or fed
ramp to read more about compliance
certifications visit the additional
resources
reading China East and China North which
are regions that are available through a
unique partnership between Microsoft and
21 vonet whereby Microsoft does not
directly maintain the data centers
Germany Central and Germany Northeast
which are regions that are available via
a data trusty model whereby customer
data remains in Germany under the
control of t- systems a Dua Telecom
company acting as a German data trustee
each Azure region is paired with another
region within the same geography graphy
such as the US Europe or Asia this
approach allows for the replication of
resources like virtual machines or VMS
and
storage this is across a geography
intended to reduce the likelihood of of
natural disasters civil unrest power
outages or physical Network outages
affecting both regions at once there are
additional advantages of region pairs
such as in the event of a wider Azure
outage one region is prioritized out of
every pair to help reduce the time to
restore for applications planned Azure
updates are rolled out to paired regions
one at a time to minimize downtime and
risk of application outage data
continues to reside within the same
geography assets pair except for Brazil
South for tax and law enforcement
jurisdiction purposes Azure services
that support availability zones
including zonal and Zone redundant
offerings are continually expand
expanding there are three types of azure
Services supporting availability zones
including zonal Zone redundant and
always available Services you can
combine all three of these approaches to
architecture when you design your
reliability
strategy Azure offerings are grouped
into three categories that reflect their
Regional availability foundational
mainstream and strategic Services
azure's General policy on deploying
Services into any given region is
primarily driven by region type service
category and customer
demand let's expand upon the three
categories that reflect their Regional
availability foundational services are
available in all recommended and
Alternate regions when a region is
generally available or within 90 days of
a new foundational service becoming
generally
available mainstream services are
available in all recommended regions
within 90 days of a Region's General
availability mainstream services are
demand driven in alternate regions and
many are already deployed into a large
subset of alternate regions strategic
services are targeted service offerings
that are often industry focused or
backed by customized
Hardware strategic services are demand
driven for availability across regions
and many are already deployed into a
large subset of recommended regions in
this video you learn that azures
infrastructure utilizes regions and
availability zones to guarantee High
availability and Disaster Recovery
ensuring service
reliability Azure boasts the largest
global footprint among Cloud providers
with an ever increasing number of
regions and availability zones including
special regions for compliance you learn
that regions are also pair
geographically for resource replication
and risk reduction furthermore Azure
services are are categorized into zonal
Zone redundant and always available
Services reliability in Azure is not
just a keyword but a significant aspect
of ensuring business
continuity but what determines this
reliability factors such as availability
latency service level agreement or SLA
and unique business requirements play a
vital role as Azure users understanding
the interplay of these factors assists
in devising a robust architecture
tailored to your workloads specific
needs in this video you'll learn about
the reliability requirements how to
build reliability and the significant
role that regions and availability zones
play in establishing
reliability you'll discover that this is
governed by the shared responsibility
between Microsoft and its users let's
begin by examining reliability
requirements as mentioned availability
latency SLA and business requirements
are factors that determine the level of
reliability necessary for Azure solution
these factors guide the architecture and
resiliency level of the solution for
instance availability requirements are
dictated by the amount of permissible
downtime and its cost to the business as
well as the resources available for
ensuring High availability of the
application building reliable systems on
Azure is a joint effort between
Microsoft and its users Microsoft takes
charge of the reliability of the cloud
platform encompassing its Global Network
and data centers on the other hand Azure
customers and partners are responsible
for the resiliency of their Cloud
applications implementing architectural
best practices tailored to the needs of
each workload even though Azure
consistently aims for the highest
possible resiliency in SLA for the cloud
platform users must set their own Target
slas for each workload in their solution
an SLA provides a means to assess if the
architecture aligns with the business
requirements as users pursue higher SLA
guaranteed uptime percentages the cost
and complexity associated with achieving
such levels of availability increases
for example an uptime of
99.99% equates to roughly 5 minutes of
total downtime per month and the
worthiness of the cost and complexity
necessary to reach that percentage
depends on the specific business
requirements therefore understanding
Microsoft's supported slas given that
each Azure service has its own is
crucial when establishing final SLA
commitments so how do you build
reliability reliability requirements for
an application should be defined early
in the planning process if certain
applications don't always require 100%
High availability cost can be optimized
during those non-critical
periods it it's important to identify
possible failures that an application
might experience and plan for their
potential
impact the recovery plan should include
strategies for individual components and
the overall application with protection
against zonal Regional and application
Level
failure regular testing should be
conducted to measure application
reliability and resilience against
unexpected
failures let's walk through a checklist
for reliability
planning big Begin by defining
availability and Recovery targets to
align with business
requirements design your application's
reliability features based on its
availability
requirements ensure that your
applications and data platforms meet
your reliability requirements set up
connection paths to enhance
availability then utilize availability
zones and Disaster Recovery planning
where applicable to improve reliability
and cost
Effectiveness make sure your app
application architecture can withstand
failures and understand the implications
if SLA requirements are not
met identify potential failure points in
the system Your application's Design
must tolerate dependency failures by
deploying circuit breakers finally build
applications that can operate even in
the absence of their
dependencies regions and availability
zones play a significant role in
ensuring
reliability a region comprises multiple
physically separate availability zones
that are interconnected by a high
performance Network ensuring less than 2
milliseconds
latency this setup allows your data to
remain synchronized and accessible even
during issues you can strategically use
this infrastructure when designing
applications and data infrastructure
that automatically replicate and provide
uninterrupted Services across zones and
regions When selecting the best region
base your decision on Technical and
Regulatory considerations including
service capabilities data residency
compliance requirements and latency
Microsoft Azure Services support
availability zones which enable your
Cloud operations to run at Optimum High
availability while supporting your
disaster recovery and business
continuity
strategies the choice of region plays a
crucial role in enhancing your
reliability strategy remember that
establishing Dependable systems on aure
necessitates a coop operative effort so
Microsoft is responsible for the
dependability of the cloud platform
itself encompassing its worldwide
Network and data centers azures clients
and partners however bear the
responsibility for ensuring the
dependability of their Cloud
applications employing architectural
best practices tailored to the
specifications of each workload in this
video you learn that ensuring
reliability within ashure applications
requires a blend of resol resiliency and
availability governed by a shared
responsibility between Microsoft and its
users Microsoft provides a Dependable
Cloud platform and users should adhere
to architectural best practices to shape
their Cloud applications resiliency
according to the unique needs of each
workload this combined Endeavor is
underpinned by carefully calibrated slas
strategic use of regions and
availability zones and a well-devised
recovery
plan reliability monitor ing in Azure
revolves around understanding and
promptly responding to the health of
applications and Associated Resources
with the ever growing ecosystem of the
Azure platform having a robust
monitoring system in place is crucial
for businesses that aim to harness the
power of the cloud without compromising
on reliability in this video you'll
differentiate scalability from
reliability and discover the tools and
strategies to ensure reliability
monitoring in Azure you'll also learn
learn about best practices to follow to
increase reliability while both
scalability and reliability play pivotal
roles in the cloud environment their
monitoring focuses differ slightly
scalability mainly pertains to how well
a system can handle increased loads this
involves understanding metrics to
determine when to scale up out in or
down Dynamic scalability a notable value
of transitioning to the cloud allows
systems to adjust based on demand within
scalability monitoring there are factors
that you need to be aware of metrics
analysis assists in defining the
thresholds for various scaling actions
such as scaling up or scaling
down minimum instance awareness is being
aware of the least number of instances
that should run at any time to ensure
the system remains functional even under
minimum load autoscaling capabilities
are offered with certain Azure Services
it's vital to determine the best metrics
on which these rules are based and
configure them accordingly manual
scaling alerts apply to services that
don't support autoscaling whereby
creating allert rules becomes
essential reliability on the other hand
focuses on how well an application or
system maintains its operations under
different conditions it concerns early
warnings system health and dependencies
to ensure that operations continue
smoothly
reliability monitoring factors include
early warning systems through monitoring
tools that promptly flag potential
issues allowing teams to intervene
proactively before users start
experiencing
disruptions detailed capturing involves
comprehensive monitoring to quickly
restore applications this helps
developers understand and rectify root
causes to prevent recurrence and Source
variability is data for reliability
monitoring that stems from various
sources each offering different insights
now that you understand the difference
between scalability and reliability
let's unpack five Azure tools used for
monitoring
reliability Azure boasts a suite of
tools designed to monitor the
reliability of applications and
resources application insights is a
flagship service of azure that produces
logs that offer deep insights into
application health and
performance this service facilitates
detailed capturing that's vital for
Effective reliability monitoring Azure
monitoring agents collects performance
metrics from operating systems ensuring
that the foundational layers of an
application remain stable and performant
Azure monitor provides full stack
monitoring Advanced analytics and
intelligent
alerting Azure monitor pulls metrics
from a variety of azure resources
offering a unified solution for holistic
monitoring Azure service health is a
dashboard oriented tool that allows
allows users to track active events
providing realtime information on the
health of azure Services Azure ad logs
is built directly into the Azure
platform for security and compliance it
ensures that only authorized users
access resources thereby indirectly
maintaining
reliability by taking advantage of these
tools businesses can craft a
comprehensive reliability monitoring
strategy that not only detects issues
but also provides actionable insights to
rectify them
the integration of the Azure monitoring
tools and methodologies enables the
implementation of an early warning
system a system such as this enables
proactive intervention by promptly
detecting issues that may disrupt the
normal functioning of applications or
services for instance Azure service
Health alerts users to potential
disruptions that may affect their cloud
services this ability to foresee issues
can significantly reduce downtime
ensuring that services remain functional
and continue to meet user requirements
the combination of comprehensive
monitoring and early Warning Systems
ensures that applications can be
restored efficiently it also guides
system designers and developers to
modify the system based on the insights
provided by the monitoring data
ultimately preventing recurring issues
azures best practices for monitoring
applications for reliability stem from
extensive experience to enhance
reliability be be sure conduct regular
health checks by using health probes
then check the functions outside the
application to spot any health and
performance
degradation monitor long running
workflows by addressing issues promptly
to avoid large scale roll backs or
multiple corrective Actions application
logging involves logging at production
and service boundaries using semantic
and asynchronous methods be sure to
distinguish between application and
audit logs analyze remote call data by
measuring metrics like latency
throughput which are items passing
through the system and errors to provide
immediate insights into application
Health conduct statistical analysis to
pinpoint errors monitor exceptions which
involves tracking transient exceptions
and retries to preempt potential service
failures early Warning Systems allows
you to identify and set threshold values
for key performance indicators alert op
operations if the thresholds are reached
stay within aure limits by monitoring
the usage of resource types to adhere to
Azure subscription limits oversee
thirdparty Services by documenting your
interactions and linking them to your
application's health using unique
identifiers finally train adequate staff
ensure multiple operators are trained to
monitor the application and execute
recovery steps for continuous coverage
in this video you learned how to
different differentiate scalability from
reliability and discovered the tools and
strategies to ensure reliability
monitoring in Azure you explored best
practices to follow to increase
reliability the value of early warning
signs and system
resilience within the cloud occasional
failures are inevitable rather than
focusing solely on preventing these the
aim shifts towards reducing the impact
of individual malfunctioning
components in this video you will
explore the Azure well architected
framework and form an understanding of
the key principles of Designing reliable
applications in Azure the Azure well
architectured framework provides you
with guiding principles to enhance the
quality of your
workload this framework is built on Five
Pillars that exemplify architectural
Brilliance reliability which is to
recover from failures and continue to
function security focusing on protecting
data and applications cost optimization
which is managing costs to maximize the
value delivered operational excellence
where processes keep a system running
and performance efficiency concerning
system adaptability to changes in
load these principles Aid in evaluating
the reliability of applications hosted
on Azure for an application to be
considered reliable it must uphold a set
percentage of uptime termed as
availability balancing High resilience
minimal latency and cost Effectiveness
is Paramount embodying High
availability the applications capacity
to bounce back from failures showcases
its resilience let's examine some key
principles of Designing reliable
applications in Azure first you should
prioritize business needs reliability
varies based on business demands for
instance an application with a
99.999% SLA needs more reliability than
one one at 95%
SLA however enhancing reliability and
high availability can Elevate costs this
balance is
essential then anticipate failures
design solutions that anticipate
setbacks ranging from minor components
to vast assure areas to improve
reliability monitor application Health
by recognizing the problems then
continuously monitor your application
against healthy Benchmark aids for early
detection And Timely intervention
opportunities Monitor and measure
application availability through key
targets such as meantime between
failures or mtbf which is the average
time between failures of a component and
meantime to recover or mttr which is the
average time it takes to restore a
component after a
failure Embrace automation human errors
like deploying untested software to
misconfigurations can disrupt
applications reducing Errors By
integrating Automation in Cloud
operations enhances reliability testing
deployment and
management aim for self-healing which is
a system's capacity to autocorrect
failures this technique links to defined
remediation strategies connected to the
systems failure
patterns so combine monitoring and
automation for Superior
reliability next opt for scaleout
designs instead of magnifying existing
resources systems should adapt to demand
by adding more resources in parallel
this method known as scaleout ensures
the system can manage both expected and
surprise traffic
spikes functional and non-functional
requirements encompasses both
availability and Recovery targets that
are crucial for gauging workload uptime
and
downtime these targets are essential
benchmarks and their definition helps in
improving reliability in line with
business expectations the foundation of
resiliency and availability lies in
clear requirement identification
considering factors like tolerable
downtime and its Associated business
costs here are some key considerations
set acceptable uptime standards for
workloads assertain permissible
durations of workload unavailability and
data loss during
calamities prioritize application and
data platform
requirements let Lage assure services to
guarantee connection availability and
augment reliability and evaluate overall
workload Health it's essential to
comprehend and align the service level
agreements or slas service level
objectives or slos and service level
indicators known as SLI of all applied
dependencies with the application's
availability targets composite SLA is an
aggregate SLA encompassing all
application components and dependencies
it offers insights into designed
availability relating to customer
expectations regarding Disaster Recovery
considerations when in disaster recovery
mode availability targets applicability
may vary using an n+1 model ensures
enhanced availability but it may lead to
cost implications but what are the
consequences of unmet targets potential
penalties often Financial might be
incurred for not meeting SLA
obligations preventative measures can be
taken but they might increase the
operational cost so understanding these
consequences is essential especially
when considering a failover it's
important to note that recovery targets
indicate permissible workload
unavailability and data loss during a
disaster the key metrics include
recovery time objective or RTO which is
the maximum time an application can be
down post incident and Recovery Point
objective or RPO which is the maximum
tolerable data loss duration during a
Calamity recovery targets driven by
business requirements should align with
RTO and RPO standards with Azure
application platform requirements Azure
offers resiliency features tailored to
app reliability these features might
depend on specific configurations like
the tier or size of a stock keeping unit
or skew you have chosen or the
deployment type Regional deployment
concerns applications that should span
multiple regions based on needs
utilizing zones is costeffective and
straightforward however Regional
isolation is recommended when single
region setups don't meet slas or when
user distribution demands it regarding
availability zones and sets Services
utilizing availability zones can be
deployed zonally or across multiple
zones availability sets instruct Azure
to diversify virtual machine instances
ensuring fault
tolerance zones offer more reliability
than sets but might involve added costs
and performance
considerations finally availability
considerations include applications
being hosted on at least two platform
noes adhering to the n+1 model Health
probes in Azure load balancer and Azure
application gateways evaluate backend
Health however custom Health probes
monitor the application including its
dependencies in this video you learned
about the Azure well architectured
framework focusing on pillars like
reliability and security achieving
reliability in Azure involves balancing
up time resilience and cost
necessitating proactive measures and
continuous
monitoring during this week you learned
about important security Concepts that
are essential for keeping data safe you
covered essential security Concepts such
as security planning and Disaster
Recovery as well as data management and
availability now let's review some of
the key topics that you learned you
started by setting your expectations for
the course exploring the course syllabus
and doing some foundational reading in
additional
resources then you explored Cloud
security planning beginning with
identity disaster recovery and training
This concerns having a strategy to stay
operational and to protect customer data
in the event of an outage you are
introduced to Microsoft azures solutions
for implementing business continuity and
Disaster Recovery or
bcdr this includes tools to create
various configurations for a backup
system Azure side recovery that
replicate workloads that become
accessible should the primary system
fail and Azure backup to create
encrypted data backups stored in
geographically distant locations you
also learned about the the approaches
used by Azure to protect Data Network
and physical security this consists of
strict access policies encryption and
data disposal procedures to safeguard
customer data High redundancy Network
infrastructure to maximize availability
in the event of Hardware failures and
secure facilities and train staff to
control access at data
centers next you learn about Enterprise
application integration or eai which is
about connecting applications to share
data and create a more streamlined
workflow you found that while this
practice can open applications to
certain vulnerabilities and threats this
can be mitigated with sound security
fundamentals such as robust
authentication encryption and regular
audits you then covered log collection
analysis and retention and how to use
azured monitor to collect and store logs
from monitored resources these logs can
then can be processed and analyzed by
tools such as Azure Sentinel and log
analytics workspaces and transformed
into insightful information Azure
Security Services are customized for
businesses through Solutions such as
Azure front door Azure private link
Azure key Vault Azure application
Gateway and Azure policy together these
tools bolster the security framework of
azure based infrastructures moving on
you were given an overview of the azur
Cloud adoption framework an approach
that consolidates best practices
documentation and tools azures Cloud
adoption framework supports
organizations throughout the cloud
adoption life cycle with manage govern
and organize methodologies you learn
that planning and design identity and
access management are critical
components within the Azure Cloud
adoption framework and what's involved
when integrating Azure into an existing
it environment you then delved into the
planning stages with a focus on cloud
adoption framework tools and resources
to assess Monitor and optimize a cloud
environment you also examined governance
and security considerations when
adopting Cloud Solutions and maximizing
Cloud Investments the Five Points of
security introduced you to access
control with a zero trust approach
security operations focusing on
detection including response and
Recovery
asset protection strategies security
governance for maintaining a consistent
security posture and Innovative security
practices that align with operational
practices it's important that
organizations Implement robust
monitoring systems leverage threat
intelligence establish incident response
plans to detect security threats respond
promptly to incidents and recover their
systems to a secure State you then
learned about the price privacy
principles that guide Microsoft's data
management practices these are control
transparency security legal protections
no content-based targeting and benefits
for the
customer these serve to empower users
build trust secure data uphold user
rights respect privacy and provide an
improved experience next you learned
about the Microsoft service trust portal
a resource to help ensure the security
and and compliance of Microsoft's cloud
services you were presented with privacy
tools the compliance manager and
Industry and Regional information
features this enhances transparency and
control over data you then covered how
Microsoft manages privacy and implements
its privacy commitments for customers as
well as the customer privacy controls
involving external regulations and
certifications you discovered Cloud
security poster management or cspm as a
security solution for maintaining and
enhancing Cloud environment
security this is achieved through
continuous assessment monitoring and
automation when integrating cspm
Defender for cloud enables continuous
assessments of multicloud
environments it monitors security
postures with secure scores and provides
visibility and contextual
insights finally resource governance
provided you with a set of tools such as
Azure policy Azure Blueprints and
Microsoft perview to maintain efficient
secure and compliant management of cloud
resources finally you covered
availability and continuity availability
refers to the accessibility and
functionality of systems and services
whereas continuity involves maintaining
critical business functions or quickly
recovering after a disaster or failure
you learned about business continuity
management which relates to system
Readiness for Disaster
Recovery this relies on understanding
the shared responsibility model in Azure
a division of obligations between
Microsoft and customers for preparing
infrastructure components for
failure you also discovered how Azure
utilizes regions and availability zones
to deliver reliable service
offerings each region is a separate
geographic area containing data centers
which places applications and services
closer to
customers availability zones are
physical separate locations within a
region that enhance reliability you
continued on to continuity planning
which involves assessment planning
capability validation and communication
and
coordination an effective continuity
plan not only addresses immediate
organizational needs but also
anticipates and prepares for potential
future challenges and
disruptions in availability and
resiliency you learned about the
reliability requirements how to build
reliability and the role that regions
and availability zones play in
establishing
it the spotlight then shifted to
availability and resiliency testing you
were introduced to key testing practices
and various types of
testing recommended practices include
testing regularly automating the process
and using both test and production
environments testing types can be broken
into the categories of resiliency
performance simulation fault injection
and Peak load
testing you moved on to reliability
monitoring which involves responding to
the health of applications and resources
tools for this include application
insights Azure monitoring agents Azure
monitor Azure service health and Azure
ad
logs you also learned about the value of
early warning systems and best practice
practices for reliability monitoring
finally you worked through availability
and resiliency by Design where you were
introduced to the guiding principles of
azure's well architectured framework for
Designing reliable applications these
principles Encompass reliability
security cost optimization operational
excellence and performance
efficiency the achievement of
reliability within the Azure environment
hinges on striking a balance between
uptime resilience and cost necessitating
proactive measures and ongoing vigilance
by completing Security Administration
you have expanded your knowledge of
cyber security management and compliance
remember it's important to protect data
and you can do that by implementing
sound security
practices compliance in any industry is
the adherence to regulatory legal and
Company standards and policies it
ensures that businesses operate
responsibly and ethically when it comes
to cloud services compliance is
especially significant due to data
storage security and Global business
operations in this video you'll enhance
your understanding of how compliance is
defined and applied within the realm of
cloud computing you'll also become aware
of the steps taken by Microsoft to
ensure the alignment with common
standards and the tools that help them
to achieve this Microsoft provides cloud
services via Azure and its Suite of
Microsoft applications and and has
established a robust system for
compliance Microsoft Azure leads the
cloud industry with over 100 compliance
offerings these offerings are both
General and region specific covering
regions such as the US European Union
Germany and more furthermore they also
address specific Industries like Health
government and finance but what inputs
form the Bedrock of such compliance
offerings Microsoft engages globally
with with governments Regulators
standards bodies and non-governmental
organizations to understand the emerging
needs of various sectors the goal is to
continually update and expand their
compliance offerings to align with
industry best practices and
regulations an entity that informs many
of Microsoft's standards is a center for
Internet Security or CIS a non-profit
organization that develops cyber defense
best
practices it draws on Expert s from
various sectors
worldwide CIS benchmarks offer
configuration standards for securing a
system and every guidance recommendation
relates to one or more CIS controls
these controls align with known
standards such as Nest cyber security
framework ISO
27,000 PCI DSS Hippa and more that's a
lot of acronyms so let's take a moment
to break those down nist is the National
Institute of standards and Technology
ISO refers to the international
organization for standardization PCI DSS
is the payment card industry data
security standard and Hippa stands for
the health insurance portability and
accountability Act of 1996 benchmarks
undergo two phases of consensus review
during initial development and after the
benchmarks publication based on internet
Community feedback there are two
security settings levels
level one which relates to essential
basic security requirements with minimal
disruption and level two which concerns
enhanced security requirements with
potential for reduced functionality CIS
hardened images are virtual machine or
VM images based on the benchmarks
ensuring protection against cyber
threats by addressing
vulnerabilities CIS has benchmarks for
Microsoft products such as Microsoft
Azure Microsoft 365
Windows 10 and Windows Server
2016 the CIS Microsoft Azure
foundation's Benchmark offers guidance
for establishing a secure Azure
configuration CIS benchmarks are
recognized internationally and guide
organizations in achieving a secure
Baseline
configuration those working with
Microsoft products can use these to
enhance application security and
Microsoft participated in the creation
of these benchmarks there are also CIS
hardened images on Azure which conform
to the benchmarks available on the
Microsoft Azure Marketplace this
includes images for Windows servers and
Linux versions which have been
pre-tested for compatibility and are
certified for Azure use Azure blueprints
provided by Microsoft assist in
deploying Cloud environments adhering to
compliance and cyber security
standards Microsoft offers Azure
blueprint specifically for the CIS Azure
foundations Benchmark this AIDS in
deploying policies compliant with the
Benchmark
recommendations to maintain this array
of compliance offerings Microsoft has
integrated tools that simplify and
expedite the compliance process some
notable tools include Azure security
Center a solution to unify Security
Management and provide Advanced threat
protection across hybrid Cloud work
loads Azure policy which helps Define
and enforce policies to ensure a cloud
environment aders to compliance
standards it also offers real-time
policy enforcement and evaluation
ensuring that resources and
configurations remain compliant and
Azure blueprints a tool for cloud
Architects and it groups to set and meet
organizational standards patterns and
requirements thereby enabling rapid
environment development within comp
compliance
Norms there's also Microsoft purview
compliance manager which offers
automated assessment and compliance
management across multicloud
environments it provides pre-built
assessments for various standards and
regulations aiding organizations in
their compliance
journey and finally you have Microsoft
compliance Center as part of the
Microsoft 365 Suite this tool AIDS
businesses in meeting Global industry
and Regional standards and regulations
its functionality encompasses the three
pillars of compliance and offers
insights into compliance risk and
posture Microsoft's offerings also
extend to specific Industries for
instance in the financial sector
Microsoft cloud ensures compliance with
globally applicable standards US
Government standards industry specific
and region or countrys specific
standards in this video you learned
about cloud computing compliance
standards and discovered how Microsoft
aligns with them through Azure and its
Suite of
applications with over 100 compliance
offerings for different regions and
sectors Microsoft sets a high bar in the
industry this is reinforced by its
collaboration with the center for
Internet Security highlighting the
importance of best practices for cyber
defense Microsoft also provides a
toolkit to ensure streamlined and
efficient compliance processes
these tools together with the compliance
offerings underscore a dedication to
secure compliant and responsible Cloud
operations catering to diverse
Industries globally risk assessment is a
foundational element of any Cloud
migration strategy within the context of
Microsoft Azure assessing risks enables
organizations to maintain
confidentiality Integrity availability
and
privacy by implementing a rigorous risk
ass assessment process you can ensure a
smoother transition to the cloud while
addressing potential security and
compliance
concerns in this video you'll learn to
identify and establish risk levels and
how to mitigate the risks associated
with them you'll also become familiar
with how compliance scores in Azure can
help organizations determine their
compliance posture understanding and
identifying the risk levels associated
with various applications and data sets
is crucial applications might vary in
terms of their age origin and underlying
Technologies some may resist
modernization due to being Legacy apps
or having brutal thirdparty Integrations
such challenges require a methodical
approach to inventory before migrating
to Azure active directory or Azure ad
it's vital to understand all the apps in
use and the associated risks conducting
an inventory of your apps can help
prioritize which ones to modernize first
and determine the necessary security
controls after cataloging all the apps
you should determine their impact by
answering several questions these might
include what types of sensitive data
does the app access for example is
personally identifiable information
involved how much revenue is associated
with the app what happens when access to
the app is denied and who needs access
to the app you can use the answers to
classify apps based on their impact
levels High business impact medium
business impact and low business impact
you may also encounter these terms as
hbi MBI and LBI respectively after
identifying potential risks the next
step is to establish or measure their
levels in the Cloud's shared
responsibility model the cloud service
provider or CSP manages security and
compliance while the customer is
responsible for aligning these with
their specific needs and risk tolerance
understanding where the responsibility
lies is crucial the type of cloud
deployment dictates the responsibility
distribution between the CSP and the
customer this could be infrastructure as
a service platform as a service or
software as a service or is pass and SAS
respectively for instance in an is model
the customer retains more responsibility
compared to SAS after risk
identification and establishment
organizations must employ strategies to
mitigate them let's explore a few
notable methods credential Management in
Azure ad relies on multiple dependencies
when a second factor is added the
complexities increase it's recommended
to enable multiple second Factor options
and if possible use passwordless
authentication methods like Windows
hello for business or PH2 security Keys
Microsoft suggest suggests that
customers map their risk and controls
framework to a standardized one like ISO
2701 or nist SP
853 such Frameworks help in addressing
Cloud risks and accelerate risk
assessments customers should utilize
Microsoft tools like the perview
compliance manager which helps
organizations create assessments that
gauge compliance with relevant industry
regulations to validate the cloud
service providers Effectiveness in
managing security and compliance it's
beneficial to review their external
audit reports
periodically and finally as you migrate
your apps to Azure ad you should
understand the required security
controls for each app this ensures that
applications are protected from
potential threats and vulnerabilities
next let's discuss compliance
scores this is a crucial metric within
Microsoft azure's risk assessment
framework it provides organizations with
an overview of their compliance posture
and helps them gauge their adherence to
Industry standards and regulations a
higher compliance score signifies a
stronger alignment with best practices
and demonstrates a commitment to
maintaining a secure Cloud environment
by regularly monitoring and improving
their compliance score organizations can
continuously enhance their security
measures and reduce the likelihood of
security breaches or compliance
violations micro oft 365 business
premium introduces the compliance
manager a tool designed to streamline
compliance related activities the
compliance manager offers features such
as data loss prevention data life cycle
management and internal risk
management it assists organizations in
identifying compliance gaps suggesting
improvements and ultimately enhancing
their compliance score through its
intuitive interface and actionable
insights the the compliance manager
empowers organizations to establish a
robust and secure Cloud environment
let's consider a hypothetical scenario
to illustrate the practical application
of risk assessment in Microsoft Azure
imagine a healthcare organization that
stores patient records in the cloud the
organization identifies the risk of
unauthorized access to sensitive patient
data to mitigate this risk they
Implement Azure active directory for
identity management enforcing multiactor
authentication and utilizing Azure
information protection to classify and
encrypt patient records based on their
sensitivity this reduces the
organization's risk of data breaches and
ensures compliance with Healthcare
regulations in this video you discovered
that risk assessment is crucial for
cloud migration especially in the
Microsoft Azure framework this involves
identifying risks understanding shared
responsibilities and setting risk levels
organizations should use various tools
and strategies to tackle these risks
this includes Microsoft's compliance
manager for assessing compliance and
compliance scores that reflect how
closely an organization follows best
practices with azure's Comprehensive
tool set and persistent monitoring
organizations can safely transition to
the cloud maximizing its advantages
while curbing potential
dangers Microsoft perview has emerged as
a forerunner in the realm of data
management as a crucial asset in today's
digital age understanding data's
intricacies life cycle and security is
of Paramount importance in this video
you'll explore how Microsoft perview can
be used for data life cycle management
data loss prevention and information
protection Microsoft perview offers a
comprehensive Suite of tools tailored to
meet the data governance and risk
management needs of
organizations in an age where
information is scattered across various
devices applications and locations a
tool that provides holistic oversight is
invaluable Microsoft perview combines
the former Azure purview and Microsoft
365 compliant Solutions and services
together into a single brand together
these Solutions help your organization
to gain visibility into Data assets
across your organization enable access
to your data security and Risk Solutions
Safeguard and manage sensitive data
across clouds apps and endpoints manage
endtoend data risks and Regulatory
Compliance and Empower your organization
to govern protect and manage data in new
comprehensive ways Microsoft purview
includes unified data governance
solutions that help you manage data
services across your on premises
multicloud and software as a service
estate that includes Azure storage
services powerbi
databases like SQL or Hive file services
like Amazon S3 and many more these
governance Solutions are accessible
through the Microsoft purview governance
portal which provides tools to enable
your organization to create an upto-date
map of your entire data estate that
includes data classification and
endtoend
lineage identify where sensitive data is
stored in your estate and create a
secure environment for dat data
consumers to find valuable data
organizations can also generate insights
about how data is stored and used and
manage access to the data in your estate
securely and at scale Microsoft perview
has a functionality called data use
management this allows data owners to
enable access policies on their
resources by enabling it data owners can
regulate devops policies data owner
access policies and even self-service
access policies which are automatically
generated by Microsoft perview after
approval of an access
request note that before any data policy
is created on a resource data use
management needs to be enabled on that
resource ensuring that security is at
the Forefront of data
access Microsoft perview offers two key
Services information protection and data
life cycle
management let's explore each one in
more detail
information protection helps
organizations discover classify and
Safeguard sensitive and crucial content
throughout its lifespan its core
objectives are to know your data by
understanding the data landscape in
environments like on premises cloud or
hybrid and using tools such as trainable
classifiers activity Explorer and
content
Explorer protect your data by applying
measures like encryption access
limitation ations and visual markings
and prevent data loss by spotting risky
behaviors and stopping unintended data
sharing with tools like data loss
prevention policies and endpoint data
loss
prevention data life cycle management is
for handling the content life cycle
specifically importing storing and
classifying vital data it aids in data
governance for compliance or regulatory
obligations the goal is to govern your
data by ensuring it's kept deleted or
stored in a compliant way using features
like retention policies retention labels
and Records management together these
Services ensure data is classified
protected and governed effectively no
matter where it resides or travels
Microsoft purview data loss prevention
or DLP aims to protect sensitive data
and prevent its unintentional
disclosure the admin capabilities in DLP
include being able to identify Monitor
and automatically protect sensitive
information throughout Microsoft 365
platforms like one drive for business
SharePoint online Microsoft teams and
exchange online you can educate users
about compliance for example by sending
email notifications or displaying policy
tips if they attempt to share sensitive
content and you can access DLP reports
to monitor content in line with the
organization's d D LP policies and track
policy matches over time DLP policy
structure consists of three key
components conditions are criteria that
content must meet for the policy rule to
apply actions or automatic measures
taken when the conditions are met and
locations which are specified platforms
where the policy is active such as
SharePoint or one drive for example an
admin can set a DLP policy to detect
data relevant to Hippa acoss across
SharePoint and one drive preventing such
data from being wrongly
shared one scenario for implementing DLP
is locating a document in a users's one
drive that contains a credit card number
another is blocking an email with
employee personal data from being sent
outside the organization a DLP policy
can comprise multiple rules each rule
has at its core conditions and actions
when the conditions of a rule are met
its actions are Auto executed various
rules each with unique conditions and
actions can be Consolidated into one
policy for ease of management and
Reporting in this video you were
introduced to Microsoft purviews
capabilities for data life cycle
management data loss prevention and
information protection it integrates
Azure perview and Microsoft 365
solutions to meet modern data governance
and risk management needs pervie
provides organizations with full
visibility of the data ensuring its
protection ction security and compliance
this makes it essential for the
safeguarding and management of
organizational
data these days organizations face an
Ever growing challenge how to
effectively manage their high value
content from legal and Regulatory
obligations to business continuity
companies need a robust and efficient
system for managing their records this
is where Microsoft perview and its
records management capabilities come
into play in this video you'll discover
how to use perview to manage records in
a way that upholds privacy you'll also
learn how to perform automated audits
which saves time while helping
organizations maintain compliance
records management is all about
maintaining and controlling the records
within an
organization it isn't just about storage
it's about understanding which documents
have value when to keep them and when to
dispose of them Microsoft 365 offers
tools to help companies manage their
records for various
obligations when an item is declared a
record by using a retention label
several things happen restrictions are
placed on the item in terms of what
actions are allowed or blocked
additional activities about the item are
logged and you have proof of disposition
when the item is deleted at the end of
their retention period Microsoft perview
allows you to create and manage
retention labels through the file plan
manager compared to the data life cycle
management portal this offers a more
detailed and organized approach for
managing records Microsoft perview
records management includes many
features such as labeling content as a
record establishing retention and
deletion policies within the record
label triggering event-based retention
reviewing and validating disposition
proof of Records deletion and exporting
information about disposed
items for an administrator to set up
retention labels several steps are
involved the label first needs to be
given a name along with an optional
description the admin then defines the
label settings like whether items should
be retained forever or for a specific
period next the duration of retention
period should be set as well as the
point at which it begins finally the
last step is to set the action that
occurs once the retention period ends
such as deleting items or
automatically items such as documents
and emails can then be marked as records
based on those retention
labels items must be marked as records
but they can also be shown as regulatory
records which provide other controls and
restrictions namely the label can't be
removed when an item has been marked as
a regulatory record and retention
periods can't be made shorter Microsoft
purview records management is flexible
and there are different ways to manage
records across an organ organization
including enabling administrators and
users to manually apply retention and
deletion actions for documents and
emails and automatically applying
retention and deletion actions to
documents and emails you can also enable
site admins to set default retain and
delete actions for all content in a
SharePoint Library folder or document
set and enable users to use Outlook
rules to automatically apply retain and
delete action to emails to ensure
records management is used correctly
across the organization administrators
can work with content creators to put
together training
materials documentation should explain
how to apply labels to drive usage and
ensure a consistent understanding to
ease growing concerns about data privacy
Microsoft perview ensures that
organizations can manage and protect
sensitive data
effectively privacy management is no
longer just a regulatory need but also a
business
imperative with perview organizations
can understand where sensitive data
resides who accesses it and how it moves
within the organization's
ecosystem Microsoft understanding the
need for region specific Solutions also
provides services tailored to specific
environments such as Office 365 for the
US government and Microsoft 365 operated
by 21 vnet for China
these Solutions ensure that data storage
access and management meet the
Regulatory and privacy requirements
specific to these regions one of the
standout features of Microsoft perview
is its capability for automated audits
in traditional systems auditing could be
a timeconsuming process requiring manual
checks and validation with perview
organizations can set up automated
processes to regularly check and verify
data access usage and
compliance for instance if a company
needs to ensure that specific high value
content is in accessed outside of a
particular department or region perview
can automatically monitor this and flag
any
anomalies this not only streamlines the
auditing process but also significantly
reduces the potential for human error
moreover for those keen on mastering the
intricacies of data life cycle and
Records management within purview
Microsoft offers comprehensive training
resources this helps organizations to
harness the full power of Microsoft
perview and its capabilities leading to
a more streamlined and efficient records
management system in this video you
explored Microsoft purviews capabilities
for records management which range from
retention labels to automated
audits with its ability to intuitively
categorize retain or delete data perview
is not only a solution for regulatory
adherence but also a mechanism for
efficient organizational workflow for
organizations aiming for thorough data
governance understanding and leveraging
Microsoft purviews Myriad capabilities
is undeniably
invaluable before you continue
discovering the capabilities of
Microsoft perview for managing your
organization's data let's make sure you
know how to set up an account in this
video you'll be guided through the steps
to complete the following create creting
a Microsoft perview account creating a
collection and sharing and receiving
data to create a Microsoft perview
account first access the Azure portal by
visiting the URL portal. azure.com
then enter Microsoft perview accounts
into the search bar and select it from
the search results this will display any
existing perview accounts however you'll
be creating a new account entirely
select create to begin setting up the
Account Details In the project details
section you'll need to specify a
resource Group from the drop-down menu
in this case let's select default
Resource Group e us which stands for
Eastern us for the managed Resource
Group name enter Resource Group one and
then select next networking to move on
to the networking page in this page you
can select to connect to your micros oft
perview account either publicly via
public IP addresses or service end
points or privately using a private
endpoint here keep all networks selected
and then select next configuration for
the next page this page is for setting
up Kafka configurations which are beyond
the scope of this video so let's leave
it for now and select next tags to move
on here add a tag with the value value
test and the name Ms resource usage and
then select next review and
create on this page verify that the
settings displayed are correct here the
create button is dim because a tenant
level account with the name Sam's Scoops
already
exists however you can select it if this
is not the case for you after creating
your account it will appear in the main
Microsoft perview accounts page
with your account created let's go
through the steps for creating a
collection navigate to the URL web.
perview do azure.com where you will be
prompted to select a Microsoft purview
account under account name select the
name of the account you created earlier
and then select continue on the account
homepage select data map from the left
pane followed by collections in the
submenu that appears this opens the
collections management page here select
your root collection this is the top
collection in your collection list and
will have the same name as your
Microsoft perview account in this
example it's called Sam's
Scoops select the role assignments tab
in the collection window note that to
create a collection you'll need to be in
the collections admins list if you
created the account you should be listed
as a collection admin under the root
collection already if not you'll need to
contact the collection admin to Grant
you
permission to continue navigate once
more to data map and then collections
from the left pane to open the
collection management page continue by
selecting new collection at the top of
the collection window in the right panel
you're required to enter the collection
name and you can also provide a
description and search for users to add
them as collection admins in this
example let's enter development for the
name and then select create under the
root collection in the collections page
you should find the new collection you
just created you can select it to view
the basic details and collection path
next let's create a share start by
selecting data map in the left pane of
the account homepage then select shares
and finally select new share this opens
a page that prompts you to select the
storage account type and the storage
account you want to share data from
choose Azure blob storage as the type
and select a source then select
continue the next step is to specify a
name which is required and a description
of share contents which is
optional let's enter storage 2 as the
name and select
continue you'll then need to search for
and add all the assets you'd like to
share at the container folder and file
level tick the Box beside shared folder
and then select
continue you can edit the display names
the shared data will have if you like
then select continue the next step is to
select ad recipient and choose user or
app to share data to a user select user
then enter the Azure signin email
address of who you want to share the
data
with by default the option to enter the
email address of the user is shown
to share data with the service principal
select app and then enter the object ID
and tenant ID of the recipient you want
to share data with after defining a
recipient select create and
share optionally you can specify an
expiration date for when to terminate
the share you can share the same data
with multiple recipients by selecting
add recipient multiple
times you've now created your share the
recipients of your share will will
receive an invitation and they can view
the share invitation in their Microsoft
perview account when a share is created
a new asset of type send share is
ingested into the Microsoft perview
catalog in the same collection as the
storage account from which you created
the share you can search for it like any
other asset in the data catalog note
that for this tutorial I've set myself
as the recipient of the share this means
that the invitation appears when I
select share invites from the data
sharing section of the data map
menu you can access share invitations in
both the classic Microsoft purview
portal at web. perview azure.com and in
the new purview portal found at purview
microsoft.com in this video you cover
the steps for creating a Microsoft
perview account creating a collection
and sharing and receiving data with this
knowledge you're now ready to learn more
about organizing data in perview
organizations recognize the importance
of managing their data to ensure
compliance the Microsoft perview
compliance portal offers tools like
sensitive information types trainable
classifiers content Explorer and
activity Explorer to help admins
understand their organizational data in
this video you'll become familiar with
these tools and how they aid in data
classification Microsoft perview offers
three methods for identifying and
categorizing sensitive data manual
classification by users automated
pattern recognition for instance
sensitive information types and machine
learning data classification in the
Microsoft purview governance portal
involves categorizing data assets using
logical tags or
classes this classification is driven by
the business context of the data leading
to classes such as passport number
driver's license number and credit card
number this makes data assets more
comprehensible searchable and governable
it also highlights the risks associated
with each data asset helping to protect
sensitive or crucial data sensitive
information types or sits are
pattern-based classifiers with Microsoft
perview providing built-in patterns
defined by regular expressions or
functions examples include credit card
numbers passport details and Health
Service numbers
Microsoft perview also allows for the
creation of custom sits and exact data
match or EDM classification trainable
classifiers powered by Ai and machine
learning are adapt at categorizing
unique data like specific contracts or
customer records they come in two types
pre-trained classifiers which are ready
to use immediately and custom trainable
classifiers tailored to an
organization's specific
data their efficacy is determined by
seeding testing and refining the
prediction model to manage the large
volume of classifiable resources the
compliance portal offers an overview
section this provides a snapshot of
sensitive items their locations and user
actions on this
content content Explorer is a feature
that allows administrators to view the
items in full detail offering greater
insight into classified content due to
the sensitive nature of the information
access is limited to two roles content
Explorer list viewer and content
Explorer content
viewer the activity Explorer gives
insight into discovered and labeled
content allowing monitoring of actions
related to the content it provides
visibility into document level actions
like label changes and features filters
for better understanding of actions on
labeled content over time this tool is
instrumental in evaluating the efficacy
of EX existing controls activity types
that can be analyzed include file copy
to removable media file copy to network
share label applied and label
changed admins can use more than 30
filters for data including location user
sensitivity label and retention
label by monitoring actions taken with
sensitive content administrators can
determine the effectiveness of their
data loss prevention policies for
instance if many items labeled as highly
confidential are suddenly labeled as
public it signals a need to adjust
policies and limit unwanted
Behavior Microsoft perview traces the
Journey of data across an organization's
data landscape which is known as data
lineage this is essential for tasks like
troubleshooting root cause analysis in
pipelines and impact evaluations given
the complexity of Enterprise data data
environments visual representations can
be intricate perview offers several
options including entity level which
displays data as a graph showing
connections between data sources
processes and targets attribute level
which highlights specific data
attributes that move or transform
between systems and process status which
captures the operational status of data
processes aiding in data quality checks
and root cost
analysis data lineage in Microsoft
perview enhances data Quality Trust and
auditability the goal is to seamlessly
integrate all data systems offering a
Consolidated view for improved data
governance next let's explore some key
benefits of the data map feature in
Microsoft perview it provides
functionality and facilitates data
governance by capturing metadata across
diverse platforms ensuring continuous
updates through built-in scanning for
scalability each perview account begins
with a single data map capacity unit
which adjusts based on metadata volume
and
requests capacity units in data map hold
important details such as structural
details and operational logs a single
unit handles 25 operations per second
and stores up to 10 GB of
metadata data map's adaptive nature
offers cost savings especially with its
autoscaling feature and en enhanced
scanning
capabilities and finally the service is
invaluable for practical usage users can
start with a basic size for the data map
leveraging its flexibility to scale with
demand monitoring tools in the Azure
portal enable tracking of storage and
operations aiding cost
management The Meta model in Microsoft
perview data map is a tool that offers
detailed insights into the organization
usage impacts and daily roles of
business
data while purviews technical metadata
outlines data structures it lacks
insights on real world applications a
gap that the meta model fills this
feature is particularly valuable for
addressing non-technical queries about
data origins or its relevance to certain
projects for data managers The Meta
model clarifies the importance and
health of data guiding efficient data
governance especially when different
data uses have varying privacy
requirements The Meta model is
structured around assets like sales
teams or SQL tables and how they relate
to one another the concept of asset
types within the meta model provides
templates for defining non-technical
business aspects like
departments users can both utilize
provided templates and customize their
own through the meta model interactions
between these assets can be easily
defined and understood simplifying the
mapping of complex business business
data relationships for example if you
want to use Microsoft purview to show
how key data sets are used in our
business processes you can represent
that information as a template you can
then use it to describe how a specific
business process uses a specific data
set in this video you were introduced to
data mapping and the tools in Microsoft
purview for accomplishing it these help
to enhance data governance understanding
and management across organizations data
lineage offers visual representations of
data's Journey fostering trust and
auditability while the meta model in the
perview data map fills the gaps between
technical metadata and real world data
applications through its functionalities
perview streamlines data governance
ensuring that businesses can easily map
monitor and manage their data assets
efficiently and effectively by now
you're aware that Microsoft purview
offers organizations a vast degree of
control over their data including the
conditions for Access but doesn't this
also create a large amount of additional
work that needs to be done fortunately
with access policies in play this
doesn't have to be the case in this
video you'll learn about the components
of policy statements in Microsoft
perview as well as how access and devops
policies are enforced Microsoft purviews
Access policies allow you to manage
access across various Data Systems
through the policy management app in the
purview governance portal users can be
given direct access to resources such as
reading and Azure storage account once
registered these data access policies
can be enforced on Data Systems via
perview let's go over some key concepts
of Microsoft purview Access policies
defined simply Microsoft purview policy
is a collection of policy statements
which when published to Data Systems are
enforced by by those systems a policy
statement is an instruction detailing
how a data source should handle a
specific operation it includes four
components which are action effect data
resource and
subject let's explore these one by
one action describes the operation
allowed or denied by the policy like
read or modify effect refers to the
outcome of a policy currently only the
value allow supported which dictates the
resultant effect of the
policy a data resource specifies the
exact path of the data asset to which a
policy is
applied and a subject represents the
Azure active directory identity such as
a user group service principle or
managed service identity for which the
policy is relevant to better understand
how this all comes together consider
this example a policy could allow a
group named Finance analyst to read data
from a storage container named fin data
if group member tries to read from fin
data they'd be allowed note that
policies can be applied hierarchically
meaning if a policy is set on a
container it affects all its child
objects if multiple policies pertain to
the same data asset perview will
consolidate and choose the most
restrictive one for instance if one
policy allows reading and another denies
it for the same use group The deny
policy takes
precedence new policies start in draft
mode and are only visible in Microsoft
perview publishing the policy enforces
it in the specified Data
Systems if a policy refers to an asset
from another data source this is
disregarded during enforcement Microsoft
perview allows it and devops Personnel
to manage access to system metadata
crucial for maintaining database system
health performance and security users
with a policy author role at the root
collection level in Microsoft perview
can create update and delete devops
policies once saved these policies are
automatically published there are some
functional differences between access
policies and devops policies access
policies manage access to data systems
across an organization's entire data
estate they act as access grants created
through Microsoft perview Studio and
determine whether certain Azure active
directory principles should have
specific types of access to data sources
or assets within them devops policies
are a subset of access policies focused
on access to database system metadata
not user data they streamline access for
it operations and security auditing
staff unlike General access policies
devops policies only Grant access they
don't have the capability to deny it
the core elements of a devops policy
include the subject which refers to the
Azure ad users groups or service
principles granted access the data
resource that specifies the scope of
enforcement currently only SQL type data
sources are supported and the role which
represents the set of actions permitted
on the data
resource current roles include SQL
performance Monitor and SQL security
auditor both providing access to SQL
system metadata as with access policies
devops policies follow hierarchical
enforcement it is not only enforced on
the specified data resource but also all
its child resources for example a policy
on an Azure subscription affects all
related resource groups data sources and
databases within imagine that Bob and
Alice need access to multiple SQL Server
instances their manager groups these
servers into a single Resource Group
creates an Azure ad group for Bob
analice and grants them access via a
Microsoft perview devops
policy this approach eliminates the need
for individual server logins enhances
security via the principle of least
privilege automatically enforces policy
on new servers simplifies permission
adjustments via Azure ad group updates
and gives a centralized view of all
granted permissions in Microsoft perview
Studio the key principles that guide
devops policies are to simplify reduce
effort and enhance security for
simplification role definitions
encapsulate necessary permissions for
typical it and devops roles minimizing
the need for detailed permission
expertise to make things easier a
graphical interface and support for
policies on entire Azure groups and
subscriptions expedite the process and
for improved protection centralized
access management easy review and
revocation capabilities alongside the
support for the principle of leas
privilege bolster security measures in
this video you learned about policies in
Microsoft perview specifically the
components of a policy statement and the
differences between access and devops
policies purviews approach ensures
efficient control over data resources
enabling hierarchical enforcement and
promoting best practices such as the
principle of least privilege with a use
user friendly interface and role
definitions that cater to specific it
and devops needs perview streamlines
access management and enhances security
making it an invaluable tool for data
governance Insider risk is a significant
concern for organizations worldwide it
refers to the potential threats posed by
individuals within an organization such
as employees contractors or business
partners who have inside information
concerning the organization security
practices data and computer systems
these threats can be both unintentional
and intentional ranging from accidental
data breaches to malicious Insider
attacks in this video you'll explore
what Insider risk is the various types
of Insider threats and begin
understanding how this impacts
organizations consider that an employee
might accidentally send sensitive data
to the wrong person or leave their
computer unattended in a public place
Insider risk are not always intended to
be malicious often it arrives from
well-intentioned employees who
inadvertently cause security
breaches recall fishing for example
which is when an attacker attempts to
deceive people into providing sensitive
information often through emails
containing dangerous links however there
are also cases where employees with
authorized access intentionally harm the
organization for personal gain or other
motives now let's unpack the two types
of Insider threats accidental data
breaches refer to unintentional
incidents where employees or Associates
accidentally expose or compromise
sensitive or confidential
information but why might these breaches
occur unintentional threats are
non-malicious threats arising from
negligence or accidents some examples
include ignoring security protocols or
mistakenly sending sensitive information
to the wrong recipient collusive threats
involved insiders inadvertently
collaborating with external entities to
harm the organization third-party
threats come from contractors or vendors
who have some level of access to the
organization's resources mishandling of
data involves scenarios where employees
accidentally share confidential files
with unauthorized individuals misplace
them or leave them exposed in public or
unsecured places sending information to
the wrong recipient occurs when an
employee mistaken L sends sensitive or
confidential data to an unintended
recipient this can happen through email
messaging apps or other communication
tools the final reason is failure to
secure data this pertains to situations
where employees neglect or forget to
implement security measures such as
failing to encrypt sensitive files using
weak passwords or not following security
protocols malicious Insider attacks are
intentional and deliberate actions taken
by employees assoc Ates or other
insiders to harm the organization or
compromise its data Integrity let's
examine the three forms that these
threats can take intentional threats
often termed as malicious insiders these
individuals intentionally harm the
organization for personal gain or
grievances their actions can range from
leaking information to
sabotage Data Theft is where insiders
intentionally steal proprietary
confidential or sensitive information
the motive can be personal gain selling
the information or benefiting a
competitor or adversary then data
corruption involves malicious Insider
altering tampering with or deleting data
to cause harm disrupt business
operations or sabotage the
organization's
functions and data leakage consists of
insiders intentionally sharing
confidential proprietary or sensitive
information with unauthorized parties
competitors or the public this can
damage the organization's reputation
competitive advantage or lead to Legal
repercussions but how are Insider
threats manifested there are several
ways in which this is done one
possibility is violence which includes
threats or acts to create a hostile
environment Espionage involves spying
activities for political military or
financial gains sabotage aims to harm an
organization's infrastructure theft
concerns stealing money or intellectual
ual property and cyber threats through
technology are either unintentional like
falling for fishing emails or
intentional like inserting malware now
that you understand what Insider risk
and threats consist of let's unpack the
potential impact this has on
organizations Insider threats can result
in substantial Financial loss whether
through fraud data theft or the exposure
of proprietary information organizations
can face direct monetary losses and
costs associated with damage
control reputational damage may occur
from data breaches involving customer or
client data resulting in tarnishing an
organization's reputation a compromised
reputation can lead to a loss of
customer trust decreased business and
potential legal
ramifications next is operational
disruption here actions by malicious or
negligent insiders can hinder regular
business operations which might
result in Project delays increased
operational costs and loss of business
opportunities then there are legal
consequences organizations are bound by
various regulations to protect sensitive
data failure to do so especially due to
negligence in managing Insider risks can
lead to Legal penalties fines and
lawsuits in this video you learn what
Insider risk is the various types of
Insider threats as well as the impact it
has on organizations you now know that
Insider risks such as falling victim to
a fishing scam are unintentional or it
can be intentional and malicious from
individuals with inside access it can
manifest in various forms from
accidental data breaches to deliberate
sabotage the consequences of such
threats impact an organization's
Financial standing reputation
operational efficiency and legal
standing it is imperative for
organizations to recognize and Pro
proactively address these risks to
safeguard their assets reputation and
future Insider risk management is a
crucial aspect of any organization
security and compliance strategy with
the increasing complexity of it
environments and the growing
sophistication of cyber threats
organizations are more vulnerable than
ever to risks posed by their own
employees contractors and
partners in this video you'll unpack
Insider risk management you'll learn
about modern risk in the workplace the
role of Insider risk management
monitoring through analytics to identify
potential risk and how you can start
implementing Insider risk management
let's first provide you with context so
that you understand modern risk in the
workplace managing risk in today's
organizations requires a deep
understanding of the various types that
are present some of these risks arise
from external events Beyond an
organization's contr control While
others stem from internal events and
actions by
users notably risks can emerge from
illegal inappropriate unauthorized or
unethical actions by members of the
organization examples of such risks
include leaks of sensitive data
violations of confidentiality theft of
intellectual property fraudulent
activities insider trading and
Regulatory Compliance
breaches in the contemp orary workplace
users have the capability to create
manage and distribute data across
numerous
platforms however many organizations
lack the necessary resources and tools
to effectively identify and mitigate
these risks all while upholding user
privacy
standards this is where Insider risk
management comes in Insider risk
management employs a comprehensive
approach utilizing both service and
thirdparty indicators to swiftly
pinpoint assess and address risk
activities by leveraging logs from
platforms like Microsoft 365 and
Microsoft graph organizations can
establish specific policies to detect
risk
indicators these policies recognize
risky behaviors and the steps to
counteract
them the core principles of Insider risk
management include transparency by
balancing user privacy and
organizational risk through a privacy
Centric architecture configurability
where policies based on industry
location and business groups are
tailored integration involving seamless
workflow integration across Microsoft
purview Solutions and actionability
which offers insights that facilitate
reviewer notifications data probes and
user investigations it's important to be
equipped with tools that help you
identify potential risks Insider risk
analytics provides a means for
organizations to evaluate potential
Insider threats without the need to set
up any specific risk policies these
evaluations guide organizations in
pinpointing areas with heightened user
risk and determining the nature and
extent of Insider risk management
policies to implement additionally these
evaluations can inform decisions
regarding licensing needs or refinements
to existing risk policies you may be new
to Insider risk management or want to
create new policies the recommended
actions feature offers a streamlined
experience this includes steps like
setting up permissions selecting policy
indicators and crafting a policy
specifically an Insider risk management
involves the following phases policy
alerts triage investigate and action
let's unpack these phases in more
detail the workflow for Insider risk
management is designed to identify
investigate and address internal risks
it utilizes policy templates activity
signals from Microsoft 365 and alert and
case management tools to provide
actionable insights on risky
behaviors policies in Insider risk
management are crafted using predefined
templates and conditions these
conditions dictate which events and risk
indicators are monitored how they
trigger alerts which users are covered
the services in focus and the detection
time frame there's a variety of policy
templates available such as data theft
by departing users security policy
violations and risky browser
usage alerts are automatically generated
when risk indicators match policy
conditions these are showcased in the
alerts dashboard which provides an
overview of all alerts their status
severity and other pertinent
details when new user activities arise
that warrant investigation they generate
alerts labeled built needs review
reviewers can then assess these alerts
either opening a new case linking the
alert to an existing case or dismissing
it the triage process which evaluates
findings and determines how to solve
them allows reviewers to delve into the
specifics of the alert this includes
user activity and profile
information the investigate phase is
facilitated by user activity reports
which allow for a thorough examination
of a user's activity over a specific
period cases are created for alerts that
demand a more in-depth review the case
dashboard offers a comprehensive view of
all Active cases their status and other
relevant
statistics the primary tools for
investigation include the user activity
chart content Explorer and case notes
Additionally the audit log feature
ensures transparency by logging actions
taken on Insider risk management
features the Final Phase involves taking
action reviewers can decide on the next
steps whether it's resolving the case or
collaborating with other stakeholders
for minor policy violations reminder
notices can be sent to the user in more
severe cases the information might need
to be shared with other departments or
Services note that Insider risk
management integrates seamlessly with
other Microsoft perview Solutions such
as ecovery premium for an endtoend
workflow and Office 365 management apis
for exporting alert data to other
Platforms in this video you learn that
Insider risk management is an
indispensable component of modern
organizational security IT addresses
potential risks that occur from within
the workforce itself you also learn that
by using Advanced analytics and
comprehensive workflows organizations
can proactively identify assess and
mitigate internal threats with features
ranging from automated alerts and triage
processes to in-depth investigation
tools it offers a robust framework for
balancing user privacy with
organizational security Insider threats
pose a significant risk to organizations
often more so than external threats
you've learned that these threats come
from individuals within the organization
such as employees contractors or
business partners they have inside
information concerning the organizations
security practices data and computer
systems establishing an effective
Insider thread program is
Paramount there are different techniques
that allow response teams to detect
triage and investigate incidents and
include understanding the behavior
patterns of insiders monitoring user
activities and setting up alerts for
suspicious activities in this video
you'll learn about user activity reports
explore the alert dashboard and
comprehend the importance of an incident
threat response plan investigating
potentially risky user activities is
pivotal in reducing Insider threats
within an organization these activities
may be trigger alerts from Insider risk
management policies or compliance
related risks detected by policies
without immediate alerts to probe into
these activities organizations can
utilize the user activity reports or the
alerts dashboard user activity reports
facilitate the examination of
potentially risky behaviors for specific
users over a designated time frame
without necessarily linking them to an
Insider risk management policy in many
cases users are clearly outlined in
policies with potential policy alerts
and risk scores however there are
situations where you may need to inspect
user activities that are not explicitly
mentioned in a
policy this could be due to tips about
the users's risky Behavior or because
certain users don't usually fall under
any Insider risk management policy
so what happens during the configuration
and Reporting process for user activity
reports well once indicators are set up
on The Insider risk management settings
page the system starts monitoring user
activities for any potential risks
associated with these indicators this
ensures that all user activities are up
for review irrespective of whether they
trigger an event or
alert reports are generated for
individual users encompassing all their
activities over a customizable 90day
span however creating multiple reports
for a single user is
invisible after analyzing the
potentially risky activities
investigators have the option to
classify certain user activities as
harmless they can also share the report
with other investigators or decide to
temporarily or permanently link users to
an Insider risk management policy only
those assigned to The Insider risk
management investigators role group have
access to the user activity reports page
there are various components within the
user activity report the report for a
chosen user is divided into three main
sections namely user activity activity
Explorer and forensic evidence user
activity is an investigative chart of
potentially risky actions and any
related sequential
activities it offers a comprehensive
review of a case showcasing a historical
timeline activity specifics the user's
current risk score a sequence of risk
events and filters to assist in the
investigation the activity Explorer
equips risk investigators with an
in-depth Analytics tool shedding light
on activity details it allows for a
swift review of a timeline showcasing
detected risky behaviors and helps
pinpoint and filter activities linked
with
alerts finally forensic evidence
provides more information especially
especially in the activity Explorer
segment of the
report here you can view captured clips
and Associated information that are
displayed in a list the information
includes the date and time of the
capture username and activity types now
that you have a good idea of user
activity reports let's move on to the
alerts dashboard the alerts dashboard is
a tool designed to manage Insider risk
through alerts generated by risk
indicators that are defined in Insider
risk management policy
these alerts offer compliance analysts
and investigators a comprehensive view
of the current risk status enabling
organizations to address and act upon
identified potential
risks while policies by default produce
a mix of low medium and high severity
alerts organizations have the
flexibility to adjust the volume of
these alerts based on their requirements
The Insider risk alerts dashboard is a
platform that allows users to Monitor
and respond to alerts alerts triggered
by Insider risk policies the information
displayed on the dashboard is based on
data from the last 30 days it also
includes total alerts needing review
section which provides account of all
alerts that require review and triage
further broken down by their severity
levels it's categorized by their high
medium and low severity levels the
average time to resolve alert segment
offers valuable statistics on alert
resolutions detailed in hours days or
months such as the average duration to
address High severity alerts the average
time taken to resolve medium severity
alerts and the typical resolution time
for low severity
alerts however having tools and
Technologies in place is not enough the
importance of having a clear incident
response plan is
imperative an incident response plan
outlines the procedures to follow when
an alert is triggered it ensures that
the organization can quickly and
effectively address the threat
minimizing potential damage Microsoft
emphasizes the importance of incident
response and defines it as the detection
management and recovery from cyber
attacks security breaches or it
incidents further more an effective
incident response plan should include
protocols for investigating and
responding to Insider threats it's
essential to have a dedicated team
responsible for incident response who
are trained to handle Insider threat
specifically this team must be equipped
with the necessary tools and
Technologies to detect and mitigate
threats in real time in this video you
learn that Insider threats present a
unique and often underestimated
challenge to
organizations while tools like user
activity reports and the alerts
dashboard provide valuable insights into
potential risks they are only as
effective as the strategies and
protocols in place to utilize them a
comprehensive incident response plan
emphasizing Swift detection management
and Recovery is crucial organizations
must not only invest in Advanced
Technologies but also in training
dedicated teams to handle these
threats Insider risks are one of the top
concerns of security and compliance
professionals protecting your
organization against these risks can be
challenging to identify and difficult to
mitigate Insider risks include
vulnerabilities in various areas and may
cause major problems ranging from the
loss of intellectual property to
confidential data and many others that
are quite common in this video you'll
learn to identify and mitigate Insider
threats by specifically exploring
Microsoft 365 risk prevention features
you'll also be introduced to
communication compliance information
barriers and unpack privileged access
management let's move on to Microsoft
365 risk prevention features which are
designed and built in to Insider risk
products and solutions these Solutions
work together and use Advanced service
and thirdparty indicators to help you
quickly identify triage and act on risk
activity most solutions offer a
comprehensive detection alert and
Remediation workflow for data analysts
and investigators to use quickly to
minimize these risks communication
compliance policies play a pivotal role
in ensuring that messages within an
organization adhere to various
compliance areas these areas include
corporate policies risk management and
Regulatory
Compliance let's expand upon these
further corporate policies relates to
all business related Communications by
users that must align with the
organization's acceptable use ethical
standards and other corporate guidelines
communication compliance policies can
identify any deviations from these
standards and facilitate corrective
measures for example these policies can
monitor communication for potential
human resource issues like harassment or
the use of inappropriate
language for risk management
organizations must oversee all
Communications across their
infrastructure and corporate networks
implementing communication compliance
policies helps pinpoint and manage
potential legal risks thereby preventing
adverse organizational impact an example
would be monitoring messages for
unauthorized discussions or conflicts of
interest related to confidential
projects such as mergers Acquisitions or
leadership
changes communication compliance
policies can assist organizations in
fulfilling these regulatory requirements
by offering a systematic approach to
analyze and report on corporate
Communications lastly Regulatory
Compliance binds many organizations to
Regulatory Compliance standards such
regulations often necessitate a
monitoring or oversite mechanism for
messaging which is tailored to the
specific industry for those in the
financial sector there are specific
guidelines on compliance and security
considerations communication compliance
offers several important features to
help address compliance concerns on your
messaging platforms intelligent
customizable templates flexible
remediation workflows and actionable
insights with an understanding of
communication compliance let's move on
to learn about information barriers
information barriers enforce data access
controls and restrictions to maintain
compliance and security it protects
confidential information avoiding
conflicts of interest during two-way
communication Microsoft perview
information barriers or IB is a
specialized compliance tool designed to
regulate two-way communication and
collaboration among groups and users
within Microsoft teams SharePoint and
one drive once IB policies are activated
they ensure that certain users are
restricted from communicating or sharing
files with designated others
specifically these users won't have the
capability to locate sell select chat
with or call restricted
individuals these policies are
meticulously designed to identify any
unauthorized interactions among
specified groups and users and stop them
it's important to note that IB policies
operate separately from compliance
boundaries set for ecovery
investigations which dictate the content
locations that eisc Discovery managers
are permitted to explore IB policies can
be tailored to a variety of scenarios to
control communication and collaboration
some examples include restricting
Finance staff working on confidential
data from sharing documents with
specific organizational groups an
internal team possessing Trade Secrets
is barred from external online chats or
calls and a dedicated SharePoint site is
inacessible to anyone outside of that
group so essentially information
barriers protect sensitive information
in a two-way communication exchange
equally important is granular access
management for privileged users
Microsoft perview privileged access
management or Pam offers detailed
control over privileged administrative
tasks in Office 365 its primary function
is to safeguard organizations from
potential breaches that might exploit
privileged admin accounts with ongoing
access to sensitive data or essential
configuration settings Pam mandates
users to seek just in time access for
elevated tasks via a strictly defined
Tim limited approval process this setup
ensures users have just enough access to
execute a task minimizing the risk of
exposing sensitive information or vital
configurations by activating Pam
organizations can function with zero
standing privileges bolstering their
defense against
vulnerabilities Pam enhances the
existing data and access protection
features within the Microsoft 365
security framework incorporating Pam
into a holistic security strategy
ensures maximum protection of sensitive
data and Microsoft 365 configuration
settings Pam builds upon Microsoft 365's
native data encryption and its
role-based Access Control model when
it's integrated with Azure ad privilege
identity management both features offer
just in time Access Control at varying
Scopes Pam is for task level operations
in contrast Azure ad privileged identity
management or Pim offers protection at
the role level allowing the execution of
multiple tasks while Azure ad privileged
identity management manages access for
active directory roles Microsoft perview
Pam is Task oriented for organizations
using Azure ad privileged identity
management alongside Pam introduces an
additional detailed layer of protection
and auditing capabilities for privileged
access within Microsoft
365 and then using Microsoft perview Pam
and then enabling Azure ad privileged
identity management extends privileged
access Beyond Microsoft 365 focusing on
user roles or identities in this video
you learn that Insider risks necessitate
robust security and compliance measures
Microsoft Suite of compliance tools
offers a multi-layered approach to
mitigate these risks communication
compliance policies ensure that internal
messaging aligns with corporate legal
and Regulatory standards while
information barriers restrict
unauthorized interactions among specific
groups and users
then privileged access management adds
another layer of security by controlling
access to sensitive data and
configurations through just in time and
just enough access
protocols data has emerged as the
Cornerstone of all operations and
Endeavors and Microsoft has identified
four principles to guide how
organizations should engage with it know
protect prevent and
govern together they offer a
comprehensive approach to data man
management especially when it comes to
understanding the life cycle of data in
this video you'll dig into these
principles and how they apply to
different stages of the data life cycle
let's explore each one in detail
starting with no before devising
strategies to protect and govern data
organizations must first grapple with
the extent and nature of the data they
hold comprehensive insight into the
location and magnitude of sensitive data
is pivotal for assessing risks and
enables a strategic approach to data
protection and
governance as organizations embark on
this journey they should ask several
questions who is the owner of the data
what categories of data are in their
possession where is this data located
what inherent risks does the data pose
What mechanisms can be adopted for data
classification and how can the entire
life cycle of the data be tracked there
are also several data classification
Concepts that help in comprehending an
organization's data layout one would be
sensitive information types which
include patterns such as credit card
numbers identified via regular
Expressions Microsoft offers around 100
standard types but custom patterns can
be made another is trainable classifiers
these use Ai and machine learning rather
than just pattern recognition to
identify and categorize data especially
unique organizational content then there
are labels which serve as data
indicators for instance a confidential
label restricts data sharing Microsoft
uses two label types sensitivity labels
provide content protection with features
like encryption labels range from
personal to highly confidential and can
be applied broadly across data held by
the organization retention labels
specify how long data should be stored
and range from 30 days up to permanent
storage these labels are specific to
Microsoft 3
365 one more data classification concept
is policies which dictate data Behavior
after
classification this includes mandatory
labeling default labels and where they
can be applied policies protect data by
ensuring that it isn't shared wrongly
and by setting storage
durations when it comes to keeping data
safe Microsoft offers a solution for
information protection that aims to
detect classify and secure vital data
within a
company this system gives flexibility
allowing both simple and advanced
protective
measures key technical aspects include
integration of protection across
Microsoft products like word SharePoint
online Microsoft teams and powerbi
extending protection to include physical
devices internal data storage and
thirdparty cloud services and
customizable data labeling with choices
such as automated manual or recommended
options this flexibility ensures
security without interrupting user
workflows Microsoft's data loss
prevention or DLP tool helps
organizations detect and prevent
undecided distribution of sensitive
content several factors influence how
this is handled for one the data source
impacts decisions for instance it might
be acceptable for a finance team to
share taxpayer IDs but not for a
marketing team the data destination also
matters as sharing sensitive data within
an organ ization differs from sharing
externally responses can be adjusted
based on the recipient's nature the
volume of sensitive information being
shared affects reactions sharing a
single credit card number is less
concerning than sharing thousands and
lastly the potential consequences of
data exposure determine the action
low-risk data might result in user
prompts moderate risk might notify it
while high risk scenarios could lead to
data blocking or encryption
Microsoft's data governance concentrates
on retaining vital data and eliminating
the unnecessary through two primary
tools one is data life cycle management
which AIDS businesses in importing
storing and categorizing crucial data
ensuring essential information is
retained while discarding superflu
content the other is records management
this is designed for data that must
remain
unaltered it employs SM classification
to automate retention schedules ensuring
data meeting regulatory or business
standards is appropriately kept core
features of these Solutions include
streamlined Administration that allows
uniform application of policies across
both internal and external data related
to Microsoft 365 automation for
governance policies at Large Scale such
as autod deltion of outdated data
ensuring minimal manual intervention and
customizable workflows that support
adjustable retention policies custom
events can trigger retention processes
and the disposition review feature
allows nominated individuals to manage
content nearing its retention end
ensuring proper review and action in
this video you became familiar with the
four principles that inform Microsoft's
holistic approach to data management
know protect prevent and govern these
enable detailed insight into Data
ownership type location risks
classification and its entire life cycle
they also result in data protection
solutions that are versatile integrated
and customizable encompassing tools for
data classification loss prevention and
wide- ranging protection across various
platforms Microsoft's use of centralized
Administration Automation and tailored
workflows helps Safeguard data ensuring
correct use and adherence to Regulatory
and business standards
data life cycle management or dlm is a
fundamental aspect of data governance
that entails a systematic management of
data from its creation to disposal in
this video you'll identify the major
steps involved in dlm along with best
practices for handling assets throughout
the process you'll then find out how
Microsoft purview can help organizations
accomplish these tasks more effectively
perview is a solution that offers robust
features to manage this life cycle
effectively but first let's find out
what data life cycle management entails
in the initial stage data gets created
or captured in various forms such as
PDFs Word documents or SQL database data
the next step is to process the data
which entails cleaning enriching and
organizing it for easier use after that
the data is accessed and used for
various operational and analytical
purposes data that is not currently in
use but may be needed later is archived
for long-term storage and finally
obsolete or redundant data is deleted or
purged purview helps organizations not
only in archiving but also in managing
data across these stages
seamlessly as with data Assets in the
Microsoft perview data catalog also
require active management these assets
Encompass technical metadata detailing
collection lineage and scan information
there are also glossaries
classifications and ownership which
delineate the business structure of data
for successful Asset Management
individuals accountable in the
organization should be well versed with
data governance processes and know how
and when to execute these
workflows utilizing Microsoft purview
for data governance mandates
organizations to establish specific
processes and designate roles to manage
asset life
cycles the this ensures that the
cataloged data remains valuable for its
users it's pivotal to keep the metadata
in the catalog updated to efficiently
manage data on a large scale concerning
Discovery quality security and privacy
there are also several benefits of using
purview for data governance for one the
Microsoft purview data catalog Demands a
concrete definition and structure of
data to facilitate efficient data search
and protection across an organization s
data repositories a structured asset
life cycle management process ensures
the Precision of asset
metadata this boosts the catalog
usability and the capability to
safeguard pertinent data and business
professionals are more inclined to use
the catalog for data searches if it is
upheld by robust data governance
procedures to get the most out of
purview there are a few guidelines you
should follow when it comes to creating
and managing cataloges it's important to
follow a consistent procedure when
categorizing and logging Assets in the
catalog you should also acquaint
yourself with managing the essential
metadata for the Assets in the catalog
this includes maintaining a business
glossery and bespoke classifications and
knowing how to transfer assets between
collections or remove asset metadata
from Microsoft perview is useful
knowledge a significant role in
Microsoft perview is that of a data
curator who has the authority to control
read write permissions for assets in a
collection group to bolster data
governance processes this role is
designated to specific data governance
personas a data owner is a high ranking
business Authority responsible for
ensuring data quality and protection in
a particular area they decide on data
access and usage rights on the other
hand a data expert possesses
comprehensive knowledge about the
business process data creation or
consumption
Trends a data steward oversees the
definition quality and administration of
specific data
sectors these individuals are domain
experts who collaborate with their
counterparts to decide on data
management
facets meanwhile a data custodian is
tasked with overseeing one or more data
controls in this video you became
familiar with the core steps and best
practices for data life cycle management
which is pivotal in streamlining data
governance processes you also find found
that Microsoft purview offers a seamless
method to oversee the entirety of data's
Journey from creation to
disposal with a clear framework for data
management encompassing technical
metadata business structures and
established data governance personas
like data curators owners and stewards
perview ensures Clarity precision and
Security in managing asset metadata
tools like perview complemented by
rigorous governance procedures have
become indispensable in fostering
efficient data utilization ensuring data
protection and maximizing organizational
productivity for most modern businesses
Gathering customer data has become a top
priority but have you considered what
happens with it once it has been
acquired due to the potentially
sensitive nature of this data laws and
regulations dictate how it must be
handled and operating outside of these
mandates can bring consequences both
legal and reputational for a better IDE
idea of what can happen when things go
wrong let's get familiar with Kendall's
experience Kendall has just started a
job as a data engineer for aista a
producer of designer headphones her
primary role involves organizing and
preparing data for analysis the data in
question consists of everything from
birthdays to bestselling headphone
colors the company values this data as
it can lead to a deeper understanding of
customer wants and behavior but
customers also value it for a different
reason much of it contains personally
identifiable information that they would
not want to fall into the wrong hands
Kendall is excited about the job but
with her awareness of data management
regulations she also carries anxiety
about doing the wrong thing she finds
the company's way of working a bit
unstructured but chalks it up to a
laid-back culture and doesn't think too
much of it after all aista handles a
relatively low volume of data and she
feels comfortable taking it on as it
comes sometime later the company runs a
highly successful marketing campaign and
sales go through the roof the CEO is
ecstatic however this also means that
Kendall's team is inundated with much
more data than they've ever dealt with
before yet the company stubbornly
believes that the team can manage and
Kendall does her best to keep up despite
her efforts the madness catches up to
her and things start slipping through
the cracks data is left unprotected
access is unrestricted and assets that
should have been disposed of remain in
storage one day Kendall attends a team
meeting and senses a grim atmosphere
pervading the room she soon discovers a
reason why a review of the company's
data management practices conducted by
an external auditor revealed it to be in
violation of several major data handling
regulations aista is hit with fines and
restrictions but even then the worst is
yet to come
as news of the company's transgressions
spreads its image takes a beating it is
berated in the media sales plumet and
revenue Falls well below projections
perhaps most impactful of all is the
breach of trust between business and
customer Shoppers no longer feel safe
sharing their information with aista and
begin looking elsewhere for their audio
needs even partners and suppliers begin
distancing themselves and just like that
a one promising player in the headphone
Market suddenly finds itself clinging to
relevancy suddenly Kendall comes to her
senses and realizes that the audit and
its aftermath were all in her head
nonetheless she sees it as a wakeup call
and States her case to the team
imploring them to make changes before
it's too late so what should aista do to
get on the right track for one it can
act on Kendall's intuition about the
lack of process which placed customer
data at risk a the starting point would
be a structured approach to data
management based on four principles
knowing the data by identifying the most
sensitive assets protect it with
measures like encryption and access
restrictions prevent data loss with
sharing limitations and govern data with
stringent guidelines for retention and
Disposal it seems like a lot to take on
but making this happen is easier than
the company might think data Management
Solutions like Microsoft perview offer
such features as as AI powered
identification and policy-based
workflows that help businesses make
informed decisions about what to do with
data assets each step of the way aista
may also want to establish roles fully
dedicated to data protection and
compliance such as an information
security officer to regularly access the
company's adherence to laws and
regulations better enabling it to
protect its reputation thanks to Kendall
aista is paired from a potentially
devastating fate
an improved data management strategy
keeps the company in good standing with
the law and maintains customer trust
with a good plan and capable tools like
Microsoft perview the team can get back
to creating the hottest new headphones
on the
market in the age of digital
transformation the way organizations
handle and classify their data has
profound implications for governance
security and operational
efficiency Microsoft perview stands at
the Forefront of this revolution
offering an intuitive platform that not
only classifies but also governs the
entire life cycle of data from creation
to disposal the perview system
integrates data classification automated
mapping and comprehensive review
processes to Ure organizations maintain
optimal data health and compliance in
this video you'll explore the features
in perview that assist with two core
steps of information governance which
are data classification and disposition
review
as you discovered earlier Microsoft
perview allows users to categorize data
assets by affixing distinct logical tags
or classes based on the data's business
context this could range from
classification tags like passport number
and driver's license number to credit
card number Swift Code and even person's
name benefits of classifying data assets
include simplifying their understanding
searching and governance furthermore
classification assists in recognizing in
the potential risks linked to these
assets this prompts the necessary
measures to safeguard essential or
sensitive data from unregulated
distribution and unauthorized access
throughout the data
estate the Microsoft perview data map
offers an automated classification
feature when scanning data sources with
this users can Avail of over 200 buil-in
system classifications or formulate
custom classifications tailored to their
data assets can either be autoc
classified during ingestion in a
configured scan or manually edited post
scan within the Microsoft perview
governance portal classification
essentially organizes data into logical
categories facilitating easier retrieval
sorting and future referencing this is
Paramount for data governance
specifically classifying data assets
serves to narrow down the search for
data assets that you're interested in
organize data classes that are important
in your organization and where they're
stored and highlight the risks
associated with your most important data
assets and then take appropriate
measures to mitigate them the Microsoft
purview governance portal acknowledges
both system and custom
classifications there are over 200
system classifications available which
are indicated with Thunderbolt icons
hovering over a classification offers
insights into its nature and its
application specifics for more tailored
needs cust system classifications can be
created these can cater to unique
patterns or specific column names not
covered under system
classifications for instance if an
employee ID column refers to a globally
unique identifier or gu ID with a
specific pattern a custom classification
can be crafted using a relevant regular
expression when content approaches the
end of its retention duration multiple
considerations come into play that might
necessitate a re-evaluation before
disposing of it for instance you may be
legally obligated to hold on to relevant
content a different retention period
might be required if the original
setting was merely provisional and
historical or research importance might
dictate relocating the content to an
archive Upon triggering A disposition
review at retentions end designated
reviewers are notified via email
reviewers can be individual users or
mail enabled security groups the content
of this email can can be customized even
to include multilingual
instructions however for multil language
support users need to manually input
translations and these are displayed to
all reviewers regardless of their
language setting after the retention
period of an item concludes reviewers
get an initial email notification
followed by weekly reminders detailing
the disposition reviews allocated to
them reviewers can then access the
content through the link in the email or
by navigating to the disposition page in
the Microsoft perview compliance
portal on the disposition page reviewers
will only encounter reviews designated
to them however administrators in the
selected Security Group for records
management will see all reviews
reviewers possess the capability to
include new users within the same
disposition review although it doesn't
bestow these users with necessary
permissions
automatically a mini review pane appears
for each content item during the review
process here here if reviewers have the
right permissions they can preview the
content if not they can request access
by selecting the content link this pane
also features a details tab showcasing
indexed properties content location
creation and modification data and the
responsible
parties and a history tab that logs any
previous disposition review actions
potentially accompanied by comments from
past
reviewers disposition reviews can
include content from sources like
exchange mailboxes SharePoint sites and
one drive accounts notably this content
only faces permanent deletion once the
final stage reviewer decides to do so in
this video you learned about the
benefits of using Microsoft perview as
an endtoend information governance tool
solution from classifying data to
reviewing it at the end of
retention purviews dual focus on
Automation and user control ensures data
assets are managed with precision and
adaptability as organizations grapple
with ever expanding volumes of data
tools like perview enable them to
harness its power while staying
compliant and
secure these days data is not only a
crucial asset for businesses but also a
liability if not handled appropriately
its Protection Organization and
compliance should lie at the Forefront
of an organization's priorities in this
video you'll go deeper into labeling and
classification and understand the value
of these practices for achieving these
goals you'll then explore the tools in
Microsoft perview and Microsoft 365 that
can Aid in this
process recall that labeling means
tagging of data with meaningful
identifiers making it easily discernable
and retrievable classification is the
step that follows systematically
arranging labeled data into categories
based on its attributes type or
sensitivity think of labeling as naming
a book and classification as placing
that book on the correct shelf in a
library on top of making it easier to
locate labeling and classification also
play large roles in Regulatory
Compliance and data protection
regulations are rules or directives that
dictate how data especially sensitive or
personal data should be handled
preventative measures are proactive
actions taken to prevent unauthorized
access you use disclosure disruption
modification or destruction of
information both are integral for
businesses to ensure data safety and
remain compliant with global standards
and local
laws Microsoft perview offers a wide
range of tools designed to facilitate
and streamline the data labeling and
classification
processes the perview data map for
instance provides a visual
representation of how data is labeled
giving Clarity on data's nature
and its Associated risks through the
Microsoft data classification dashboard
businesses can glean actionable insights
on data distribution and setup triggers
for any anomalies ensuring they are
always a step ahead in data
protection another feature is
sensitivity labels these are markers
that can be attached to data indicating
how sensitive it is and prescribing who
can access it and under what
circumstances coupled with the default
lab labels and policies provided by
perview organizations can ensure a
comprehensive data Protection cover when
it comes to Regulatory Compliance
Microsoft perview stands out its data
classification dashboard AIDS businesses
categorizing data as per regulatory
standards so that information is handled
stored and transmitted in a legally
compliant manner further perview
information protection helps businesses
adhere to both local and Global
regulations thus reducing potential
legal liabilities data classification
Solutions aren't just limited to perview
as Microsoft 365 has a few tricks of its
own responsibilities of a Microsoft 365
administrator include monitoring
evaluating and categorizing the content
within the
organization this ensures its
appropriate control protection and
management in alignment with the
organization's
requirements these tasks are done with
tools like sensitiv it labels retention
labels and classifications for sensitive
information types there are multiple
methodologies to discover assess and
label the content often this results in
many documents and emails being labeled
signifying their importance or
sensitivity once the labels are applied
administrators typically need an
overview of how these labels function
across the tenant and how labeled items
are being managed this is where the data
classification page comes into play it
offers insights into the quantity and
types of items identified as sensitive
the most frequently used sensitivity
labels across Microsoft 365 and Azure
information protection and the most
applied retention
labels it also features a summarized
report of user activities related to
sensitive content and locations where
sensitive and retained data is stored
furthermore the data classification page
serves as a hub for managing various
features these include trainable
classifiers sensitive information type
categories specialized sensitive
information types based on exact data
matches content Explorer and activity
Explorer a key feature of data
classification is its ability to scan
and identify sensitive and labeled
content even before the initiation of
any specific policies a feature termed
as zero change
management this preemptive scan provides
administrators a firsthand look at the
implications of the applied labels
within their ecosystem thus facilitating
informed decisions regarding protection
and governance policies in this video
you've examined how data is methodically
identified categorized and protected
through the processes of labeling and
classification Microsoft's comprehensive
Suite encapsulating Microsoft perview
and Microsoft 365 plays an indispensable
role in this landscape these tools
ensure that data is not only labeled and
classified with Precision but is also
managed and protected in compliance with
global
standards the blend of visualization
sensitivity labeling retention
management and preemptive scanning
ensures that organizations can maintain
a robust data protection regimen
aligning with both their operational
needs and Regulatory
obligations you've reached the end of
the second week in cyber security
management and
compliance during this time you've come
to realize that securing data doesn't
only prevent sensitive information from
reaching the wrong people but also
ensures that organizations follow data
handling regulations and standards
before moving on let's review the key
Concepts that you have covered to start
things off you were introduced to the
concept of compliance which is adherence
to regulatory legal and Company
standards and policies where data
management is concerned Microsoft
adheres to many common Universal and
Industry specific standards as informed
by the benchmarks of the center for
Internet Security or
CIS these are reflected in several
Microsoft tools and solutions including
Azure Blueprints and the Microsoft
compliance
Center you discovered that a key process
in Cloud migration is risk assessment
which involves evaluating the risk level
presented by apps with access to
sensitive information
the steps include identifying risks by
pinpointing apps that are potentially
problematic and determining their impact
establishing risk levels and determining
where the cloud service provider and
customer are responsible and mitigating
risks with measures such as credential
management and aligning to standardized
risk and control Frameworks next you
explor the features and benefits of
Microsoft perview a comprehensive data
management solution core services
include data use management which allows
data access policies to be applied
information protection which is used to
discover classify and Safeguard
sensitive data data life cycle
management which relates to governing
data throughout its life cycle and data
loss prevention which aims to stop
unintentional disclosure of sensitive
data there are numerous tools in the
purview portal that enable these tasks
but among the most important are records
management for organizing legal and
business critical records automated data
classification with pattern-based
sensitive information types and AI
powered trainable
classifiers Microsoft perview data map
for better understanding the where who
and how of an organizations data and
Microsoft perview policy for specifying
actions effects data resources and
subjects with policy
statements moving on you shifted to
Insider risk which refers to the
potential threats posed by individuals
within an organization you learned about
the two types of Insider threats
specifically accidental data breaches
which are unintentional incidents of
data compromise and malicious Insider
attacks which are done with the goal of
causing harm addressing Insider risk is
important because the impact can range
from Financial loss to reputational
damage operational disruption and legal
consequences Insider risk management is
an approach for identifying and dealing
with these threats and consists of five
phases policy or defining the conditions
for identifying risks alerts which send
pertinent details to reviewers triage to
determine risk severity and how to
respond to them investigate which
involves examining user activities and
action or putting a plan into motion you
then explored the tools available in
Microsoft perview for implementing an
Insider risk management strategy
strategy such as user activity reports
that facilitate investigation of a
user's history of potential risky
behaviors and the alert dashboard which
compiles alerts generated by risk
indicators that are defined in Insider
risk management
policies Microsoft 365 also has risk
prevention Solutions like communication
compliance to detect risks in
organization Communications information
barriers to enforce access restrictions
and maintain compliance and security and
privileged access management to limit
access to the minimum needed to perform
a
task you wrapped up with an exercise
that had you set up a simulated inside a
threat then configure Azure security
features to detect it and apply
preventive measures you concluded by
familiarizing yourself with the stages
of the data life cycle which consists of
the creation or capture of data
processing data to prepare it for use or
analysis accessing and making use of the
the data archiving data that may be
useful later and deleting or purging
data that is not needed you also became
aware of Microsoft's four guiding
principles for engaging with data
throughout its life cycle these are
knowing the data by identifying which
assets require greater security
protecting data by such means as
encryption and access restrictions
preventing data loss by limiting sharing
privileges and governing data to ensure
proper retention storage or deletion as
needed finally you delved into the
features of perview that help
organizations tie the data life cycle to
these principles such as data catalog
for a more structured data browsing
experience data classification for
categorizing data assets with built-in
or custom classifications and
disposition review for reviewing content
at the end of its retention period and
deciding next steps by completing
compliance management you have increased
your awareness of how to integrate
strong data security practices with a
strategy that takes compliance into
account well
done by now you understand the
importance of organizations needing to
be compliant to safeguard their assets
intellectual property and people when it
comes to organizations accessing
government information certain
compliance regulations must be adhered
to for information protection and to
reduce the risk of cyber breaches
occurring in this video you'll learn
about the federal information security
management act or fsma you'll unpack
what fsma is and the implications for
federal agencies if they don't adhere to
its
requirements so what is fsma fsma is a
US legislation that was introduced to
bolster the security framework around
federal information systems born out of
the necessity to protect critical data
from potential threats and cyber attacks
fsma mandates Federal organ
organizations to implement maintain and
continuously update an information
security program Federal organizations
must ensure that their information
security measures align with the
potential risks and severity of damage
arising from unauthorized
interactions this includes accessing
utilizing disclosing disturbing altering
or eradicating data gathered or upheld
by an agency or on its behalf or did
digital systems managed by the agency
contractor or a different entity
representing the
agency so fsma encompasses several areas
but the main focus lies on the system
inventory risk categorization and
security controls implementation fsma
has six primary categories that form the
foundation of its guidelines these
include risk categorization minimum
Baseline controls document the controls
in the system security plan refine
controls using a risk assessment
procedure annual Security review and
monitoring the security controls on a
continuous basis now let's expand upon
these
categories risk categorization involves
understanding the risks before
implementing security measures under
fsma agencies categorize their
information systems based on the
potential impact of a security breach
minimum Baseline controls involve
setting a foundational security standard
that all federal information systems
must meet
by adhering to this Baseline agencies
ensure that their systems have robust
defenses in place the document the
controls in the system security plan
category describes established security
measures and protocols therefore
supplying a blueprint for securing the
information system with refined controls
using a risk assessment procedure it's
not enough to Simply Implement controls
agencies must refine these controls
based on a systematic risk assessment
process as preparation for emerging
threats security isn't a one-time
process so annual Security reviews
program officials and agency heads need
to conduct yearly reviews that ascertain
the effectiveness of the security
measures this is also essential for
obtaining fsma
certification finally monitor the
security controls on a continuous basis
involves continuous monitoring to ensure
that security Protocols are always
updated adaptable and relevant
fsma brings a more stringent and
structured approach to Federal cyber
security agencies must now be proactive
not just in implementing security
measures but in ensuring these measures
evolve with the changing cyber
environment this means that Beyond
meeting fsma standards agencies are
compelled to foster a culture of cyber
security awareness and vigilance there's
a standardized approach to security
assessment authorization and continuous
monitoring for cloud products and
services it's a us government-wide
program known as the federal risk and
authorization Management program or fed
ramp fed ramp was introduced in December
2011 with the objective of creating a
standardized procedure to assess Monitor
and authorize cloud computing services
and products this was in line with fsma
and aimed at promoting the use of secure
Cloud solutions by US federal agencies
fed ramp ensures that cloud services and
products used by federal agencies meet
consistent security
requirements these requirements not only
reduce duplicative efforts among
agencies but save time and money it also
helps in ensuring that the information
held by the federal government in the
cloud remains secure and is managed
according to established standards for
cloud service providers or csps
interested in offering their services to
a federal agency there are three
distinct routes to prove their fed Ram
compliance these include securing a
provisional authoriz ization to operate
or PTO from The fedr Joint authorization
board or jab for short acquiring an
authorization to operate or atto
directly from a federal agency and
independently crafting a CSP supplied
package that aligns with program
stipulations regardless of the chosen
route it's mandatory for the csps to
undergo an assessment this evaluation is
carried out by an independent third
party assessment organization also known
as 3pao that is recognized by the
program subsequently there's an
intensive technical review conducted by
the FED ramp program management office
or pmo the foundation of fed ramp lies
in the standards set by the National
Institute of Standards and technology or
n SP 853 and further enhanced by
specific fed ramp controls the FED ramp
authorizations are segmented into three
distinct impact levels as outlined by
nist federal information processing
standard or fips
199 low impact is where the loss of
confidentiality Integrity or
availability would have a limited effect
on the
organization moderate impact is where a
loss leads to a serious adverse effect
and high impact results in severe or
catastrophic consequences notably as the
impact level rises the number of
controls in the Baseline also increases
for instance while the FED ramp moderate
Baseline comprises 325 count controls
the FED ramp High Baseline encompasses
421
controls in this video you learned about
fsma and fedramp Frameworks within us
Federal cyber security these Frameworks
emphasize the criticality of
safeguarding federal information systems
against contemporary and emerging
threats you learn that fsma through its
structured approach and comprehensive
categories forces federal agencies to
not only Implement robust security
measures but to refine and adapt them in
in the face of a continually evolving
digital landscape you discovered that
with the increasing Reliance on cloud
computing fed ramp offers a standardized
approach to assess Monitor and authorize
cloud services ensuring their alignment
with the vital security
prerequisites previously you learned
that the federal information security
management act or fsma forces federal
agencies to not only Implement robust
security measures but to refine and
adapt them continuously you also learn
that with the increasing Reliance on
cloud computing fed ramp offers a
standardized approach to assess Monitor
and authorized cloud services ensuring
their alignment with the vital security
prerequisites in this video you'll move
on to explore what the National
Institute of Standards and technology or
Nest framework is and how this framework
helps organizations systematically
manage cyber security risk you'll also
discover Microsoft is associated with
nist let's define what Nest is the
National Institute of Standards and
Technology framework provides a
comprehensive structure for
organizations to manage and mitigate
cyber security risks this globally
recognized framework is both flexible
and adaptable and is therefore suitable
for various sectors and organizational
sizes the nist framework emphasizes the
importance of aligning cyber security
activities with business objectives and
integrating cyber security risks into an
organization's overall risk management
strategy it is composed of three main
components framework core contains
common cyber security activities
outcomes and references that apply
broadly across various sectors and
critical infrastructures it offers
detailed guidance for crafting specific
organizational profiles then using
framework profiles allows organizations
to synchronize and prioritize their
cyber security Endeavors according to
their specific business goals risk talk
tolerance and available resources
implementation tiers enable
organizations to assess and comprehend
the nature of their cybercity risk
management approach aiding in setting
priorities and attaining cyber security
goals the framework is effective in
fostering technical Innovation due to
its technology neutral stance and
reference to a range of evolving
standards guidelines and practices by
leveraging global standards updated by
the industry it ensures tools and
methods are adaptable across borders
recognizing Global cyber security risks
and technological progression using
these standards boosts economies of
scale and Spurs the creation of
efficient products and services aligned
with Market
demands Market competition further
accelerates the spread of these
Technologies and benefits
stakeholders the framework establishes a
universal taxonomy for organizations to
describe their current cyber security
posture outline their cyber security
goals identify and prioritize
opportunities for improvement within the
context of a continuous and repeatable
process track progress to the desired
State and share information about cyber
security risk with both internal and
external parties so you realize that
risk management is a continuous process
it's where organizations identify assess
and respond to risks by understanding
the probability of an event's occurrence
and its potential impacts by
comprehending their risk tolerance
organizations can prioritize cyber
security measures and make informed
decisions about their investments in
cyber security this approach AIDS
organizations in adjusting and
communicating changes to their cyber
security strategies they can address
risks by mitigating transferring
avoiding or accepting them based on the
implications for their essential
Services the nist framework assists in
regularly evaluating risks and ensuring
organizations cyber security measures
aligned with desire ired outcomes it is
designed to be adaptive and flexible
suitable for various cyber security risk
management approaches including those by
the International Organization for
standardization or ISO but how do you
use the nist framework well while it
serves as a comprehensive tool for
organizations to systematically manage
cyber security risk it's not intended to
replace existing processes instead it's
there to Overlay onto processes identify
gaps and provide a road map for
improvement the framework can be applied
across various phases of A System's life
cycle these phases are plan design build
or buy deploy operate and
decommission organizations can use the
framework in several ways such as basic
review of cyber security practices
establishing or improving a cyber
security program and communicating cyber
security requirements with stakeholders
with basic review of cyber security
practices organizations can use the
framework core to compare current
activities and outcomes against five
high level functions such as identify
protect detect respond and
recover this can help in identifying
areas for improvement or overinvestment
establishing or improving a cyber
security program is a seven-step process
step one prioritizes and scope by
identifying business objectives and
determining the scope of systems step
two is where you align by identifying
related systems assets regulations and
risks step three involves creating a
current profile outlining which outcomes
are currently achieved in step four you
need to conduct a risk assessment to
understand the likelihood and impact of
cyber security events step five creates
a Target profile focusing on desired
cyber security outcomes comes step six
involves determining analyzing and
prioritizing gaps between the current
and Target profiles followed by action
plan
creation the last step is the
implementation of the action plan by
adjusting current practices to reach the
target profile organizations can also
use the framework through communicating
cyber security requirements with
stakeholders the framework provides a
common language for expressing cyber
security requirements especially useful
for complex and interconnected Supply
chains it can be used to convey required
categories and subcategories to external
Partners report results through a
current profile or align the
organization's cyber security approach
with broader sector specific or critical
infrastructure requirements nist
facilitates continuous Improvement and
enables the prioritization of cyber
security Investments it considers
privacy and civil liberties implications
and allows for the alignment and
customization based on business needs
risk tolerances and
resources Microsoft actively engages
with the nist framework to ensure its
products and services remain compliant
and secure for instance Microsoft
provides guidance on nist sp800 171 and
details how its services align with
these standards Microsoft's commitment
to n standards reflects its dedication
to maintaining robust security measures
protecting both its internal processes
and its vast customer base Microsoft
purview compliance manager is a feature
in the Microsoft purview compliance
portal to help you understand your
organization's compliance posture and
take actions to help reduce risks
compliance manager offers a premium
template for building an assessment for
this regulation in this video you
learned what the National Institute of
Standards and Technology framework is
you now know that it offers a globally
recognized flexible and adaptive and
comprehend ensive structure for
addressing cyber security risks across
diverse sectors and organization
sizes by emphasizing the alignment of
cyber security initiatives with business
objectives and encapsulating them within
an overall risk management strategy the
framework offers a nuanced approach to
cyber defense and resilience it also
promotes technological innovation and
adaptability to Global standards by
integrating principles of continuous
risk management the framework
facilitates informed decision-making
regarding cyber security Investments and
strategies by now you have covered the
federal information security management
act or fsma as well as the National
Institute of Standards and technology or
nist framework in this video you'll
learn about another important
legislative act called surveyance Oxley
act commonly known as socks
understanding the importance of socks
and its implications is crucial for
finance accounting or business business
administration socks is a United States
federal law enacted in 2002 to protect
investors from fraudulent accounting
activities by corporations it was a
direct response to the financial
scandals involving companies like Enron
Tao and Worldcom these events shook
investor confidence and emphasized the
need for regulatory oversight socks is
important for many reasons it
facilitates investor protection ensures
the accuracy of fincial statements
improves corporate governance and
minimizes human error let's unpack this
in more detail when it comes to investor
protection sock's primary objective is
to protect investors by enhancing the
accuracy and reliability of corporate
financial statements and disclosures
these changes include strict auditing
requirements increased internal controls
and a requirement for chief executive
officers or CEOs and Chief Financial
officers or c CFOs to personally certify
the accuracy of their company's
financial
information the ACT requires companies
to maintain Financial records for seven
years Implement internal controls and
undergo external audits this enhanced
transparency ensures that investors can
make informed decisions based on
accurate financial information socks
ensures the accuracy of financial
statements by imposing stringent
auditing requirements on companies to
present accurate and complete financial
information section 404 one of the most
notable sections of the ACT mandates
that companies evaluate their internal
Financial controls and report on their
effectiveness Auditors must validate
these reports thus ensuring that
financial statements are free from
manipulation socks has substantially
improved corporate governance by
implementing new layers of control and
Reporting thereby enhancing
accountability among Executives and
Boards of director directors ultimately
transforming how companies operate
internally there's a few ways in which
socks minimizes human error let's unpack
this further Auditors often cite manual
processes as the weakest link in
internal control because humans are
prone to fatigue distraction stress and
errors automated controls are generally
more reliable they require fewer tests
and according to the public Company
accounting oversight board or pcaob
which oversees the AUD of public
companies some may only need testing
every 3 years if
unchanged however some situations
require human judgment for instance
Manpower uses a system that Flags sales
adjustments over $10,000 but allows
human oversight to decide if the
adjustment is reasonable or requires
further
investigation despite the urgency for
internal Improvement especially
following regulations like surve Oxley
many companies have not implemented
Improvement ments the lack of progress
is due to various reasons including
audit committees not pressing for
changes Beyond asset protection CEOs not
allocating enough resources CFOs not
finding valuable ways to utilize socks
and a lack of collaboration among CEOs
CFOs and internal audit departments
there are implications for companies
that are non-compliant with socks these
implications result in financial
penalties legal penalties legal
consequences a loss of investor trust
and operational
challenges Financial penalties may occur
when organizations and their Executives
fail to comply with socks regulations
these penalties aren't limited to
monetary fines they also Encompass the
loss of particular benefits that the
company or its Executives may have
previously enjoyed such punitive
measures serve to deter organizations
from engaging in deceptive Financial
practices and encourage transparent
financial reporting the legal
consequences of not complying with socks
are severe company Executives can face
jail time for fraudulent financial
reporting the purpose behind these
stringent consequences is to introduce a
sense of responsibility and
accountability at the organization's
controls ensuring that the top ranked
employees of a company are committed to
maintaining Financial
Integrity another implication of
non-compliance with socks is the loss of
investor Trust it's Paramount to any
publicly traded company socks aims to
protect these investors by ensuring that
financial statements are transparent and
accurate companies that fail to adhere
to socks regulations risk damaging this
trust which can subsequently lead to
plummeting stock prices it presents
challenges with raising capital for
future projects or expansions thereby
hindering growth potential while the
direct financial and legal repercussions
are tangible and immediately recognized
iable there are other indirect
consequences of socks
non-compliance operational challenges
can result in increased audit fees
denting company's finances
simultaneously the burden of undergoing
legal proceedings responding to
investigations and addressing
shareholder concerns can take away time
and resources from the core business
functions thereby impacting productivity
and by extension profitability in this
video you learned what the surveyance
Oxley Act is and that its establishment
arose From the Ashes of financial
scandals aiming to restore investor
confidence by demanding transparency
accuracy and accountability from
corporations non-compliance with socks
not only brings about severe Financial
penalties and legal ramifications but
also risks the erosion of investor trust
and potential operational disruptions
for corporations to thrive in today's
competitive environment adherence to
socks is not merely a legal mandate but
a testament to their commitment to
integrity and good
governance the general data protection
regulation or gdpr has revolutionized
the way organizations manage and
Safeguard personal data especially for
EU residents in this video you'll gain
insight into achieving gdpr compliance
by leveraging Microsoft products and
services and clarifying key terms rights
and
responsibilities you'll begin
understanding data subject requests GD
PR breach notifications or conducting
data protection impact assessments these
facets are crucial for any organization
aiming to be compliant particularly if
they're integrating Microsoft tools
first let's define gdpr gdpr establishes
regulations for organizations
interacting with or analyzing data of
European union or EU residents
regardless of the organization's
location this is to ensure gdpr
compliance when utilizing Microsoft
products and
Services key gdpr terms include data
controller which is the entity deciding
the purpose and method of processing
personal data personal data and data
subject is information about an
identifiable individual a processor is
the entity processing data for the
controller and customer data encompasses
data generated and stored during
business operations gdpr allows
individuals to manage their personal
data with organizations via data subject
requ quests or
DSR organizations must timely address
dsrs data breaches and conduct data
protection impact assessments or
dpas you'll unpack these facets in just
a bit but first some essential steps for
gdpr compliance include creating or
reviewing your data privacy policy
accessing data security identifying your
data controller and understanding
necessary data security processes now
there's what's known as the recommend Ed
action plan for gdpr and accountability
Readiness checklists that assist in
assessing and implementing gdpr
compliance especially for those using
Microsoft tools so gdpr serves people in
the EU and requires them to manage and
Safeguard the personal data of
individuals regardless of the
organization's location the California
consumer Privacy Act or CCPA offers
similar rights for California consumers
these rights are to delete access and
port their personal information and
include additional Provisions like opt
out or optin for certain data
sales both gdpr and CCPA necessitate
completing dsrs When using Microsoft
products and services like Office 365
Microsoft Azure and Microsoft in tune
now it's time to explore data subject
requests data breaches and conduct data
protection impact Assessments in more
detail a DSR grants individual who are
termed data subjects the authority to
manage their collected personal data
from organizations otherwise known as
data controllers under gdpr these rights
Encompass obtaining personal data copies
requesting alterations restricting
processing deleting and receiving it
electronically for transfer to another
controller CCPA endorses similar rights
controllers must swiftly address dsrs by
executing the asked action or giving a
justification for non-compliance to
complete a DSR several procedures may be
essential depending on the
organization's gdpr compliance standards
Discovery involves determining the
required data for a DSR access is a
retrieval and possibly sending the
discovered data to the individual
Rectify involves changes made to the
personal data upon request restrict
means modifying access or processing of
data possibly by limiting access or
removing it from Microsoft's cloud
export involves supplying the personal
data to the individual in a standard
electronic format and delete is erasing
personal data permanently from the
Microsoft cloud next is a personal data
breach under the general data protection
regulation it's defined as a security
breach resulting in the unintentional or
illegal destruction loss alteration
unauthorized disclosure or access to
personal data whether it's transmitted
stored or processed in other ways
so what is Microsoft's relationship to
gdpr well Microsoft is committed to the
gdpr and defines a security incident or
data breach as unauthorized or illegal
access to customer data stored within
its facilities or equipment Microsoft
acts as a data processor to help service
customers or data controllers fulfill
the gdpr's breach notification
obligations customers are notified of
data breaches unless the breached data
is proven to be unintelligent eligible
like encrypted data where key Integrity
remains
uncompromised data controllers have the
duty to assess privacy risks and
determine if a breach mandates notifying
the customer's data protection authority
or
DPA Microsoft provides the necessary
information to assist in these
evaluations initial breach notifications
from Microsoft include the breach nature
estimated user impact and any mitigation
measures additional communication is
actioned if the initi investigation
remains incomplete under the gdpr
controllers must conduct a data
protection impact assessment for
operations that could lead to risking
the rights and freedoms of individuals
although Microsoft's products and
services don't inherently require a dpia
due to their customizability one might
be necessary depending on a user's
specific configuration the
responsibility to determine the need for
a dpia lies with the data controller
given that Microsoft doesn't have
control control or significant insight
into user
configurations in this video you learned
about gdpr and that ensuring gdpr
compliance is an ongoing process for
organizations Microsoft takes data
protection seriously offering tools and
mechanisms to Aid this endeavor whether
it's the intricacies of dsrs the
rigorous measures to handle data
breaches or the nuances of dpas it's
evident that both gdpr and Microsoft
prioritize user data protection
organizations must remain Vigilant
informed and always prepared to adapt to
maintain the trust and safety of their
stakeholders in today's digitally
connected world the importance of data
security cannot be overstated
organizations invest substantial
resources into ensuring that their data
remains confidential and integrity is
maintained one of the most globally
recognized Frameworks for this endeavor
is the security standards set by the
international National Organization for
standardization otherwise known as
ISO in this video you will build your
knowledge of iso
2701 which serves as a benchmark for
Information Security
Management the iso is an independent
non-governmental entity that develops
standards to ensure the quality safety
and efficiency of products services and
systems globally an ISO standard is
essentially a set of universally
accepted guidelines practices or
requirements in a specific domain by
conforming to these standards businesses
demonstrate their commitment to
delivering high quality goods and
services to their stakeholders these
standards not only serve as a quality
assurance mechanism but also as a
universally accepted system of best
practices the iso has published various
standards but one that stands out when
it comes to information security is ISO
2701 this standard is part of the larger
ISO C 27,000 family which focuses on
various aspects of information security
or infosec including risk management and
compliance ISO 2701 establishes
guidelines for an information security
management system or
isms this is an organized approach
consisting of processes technology and
people to protect and manage an
organizations information using risk
management
procedures the iso 2701 standard
provides a framework for establishing
implementing operating monitoring
reviewing maintaining and improving an
isms its broad applicability ensures
that it can be tailored to any
organization irrespective of its size or
the nature of its business ISO 2701 is
often seen as a benchmark in the realm
of information security it's an
internationally recognized standard
which means achieving certification can
provide provide an organization with a
valuable Badge of trust this standard is
comprehensive touching upon all the
necessary components required for a
robust isms to comprehend its importance
consider the vast array of cyber threats
that organizations face daily from data
breaches to ransomware attacks the Cyber
landscape is fraught with dangers that
can inflict severe financial and
reputational
damage ISO 2701 offers a structured
approach to address these challenges
allowing businesses to identify
potential threats assess Associated
risks and Implement suitable controls to
mitigate them ISO
2701 revolves around a risk assessment
process organizations need to identify
risks related to the confidentiality
integrity and availability of
information after identifying these
risks they then evaluate and prioritize
them based on their potential impacts
and
vulnerabilities business businesses then
decide on risk treatment options whether
to mitigate avoid transfer or accept
these risks furthermore ISO
2701 emphasizes the need for continuous
Improvement this means that businesses
should periodically review and refine
their isms to stay ahead of the ever
evolving threat
landscape the standard has a set of
controls outlined in Annex a which are
designed to address specific security
risks these controls serve as
recommendations for organizations to
ensure the confidentiality integrity and
availability of information let's
explore some of the key controls in ISO
2701 when it comes to determining
policies and responsibilities you have
information security policies which
establishes a framework for Information
Security Management ensuring appropriate
policies are in place and reviewed
regularly organization of information
security for defining roles
responsibilities and Reporting Lines
within the organization human resource
security to ensure that employees and
contractors are aware of and comply with
their security
responsibilities and asset management
for identifying and classifying
organizational assets and defining
appropriate protection responsibilities
there are also controls that relate to
data security measures namely access
control for restricting access to
information and systems to authorized
users only
cryptography which calls for encryption
and other methods to secure sensitive
data physical and environmental security
to protect physical facilities equipment
and information from threats Operations
Security for ensuring secure operations
of information processing facilities
communication security for protecting
information during transmission and
system acquisition development and
maintenance ensuring that security is
built into it systems from the out
outset finally some controls can ensure
safety in relation to factors outside of
your immediate control such as supplier
relationships for managing risks
associated with thirdparty access to
organizational assets information
security Incident Management to prepare
for and responding to security breaches
information security aspects of business
continuity management which ensures
continuity of Information Security
Management in adverse situations and
compliance for ensuring adherence to
Legal Regulatory and contractual
requirements related to information
security implementing these controls
requires a risk-based approach
considering the specific needs and
context of each organization achieving
ISO 2701 certification indicates that an
organization has a comprehensive
approach to information security built
around these core controls in this video
you discovered how the iso 27,000 one
standard serves as an invaluable
Benchmark for organizations aiming to
safeguard their data and information
systems this comprehensive framework
underpinned by its extensive set of
controls outlined in Alexa provides a
robust and adaptable approach for
establishing an information security
management system by adopting ISO 2701
organizations not only demonstrate their
commitment to high quality information
security practices but also arm
themselves against the array of cyber
threats that pose significant financial
and reputational risks an emphasis on
risk assessment coupled with A
continuous Improvement model makes ISO
270001 a dynamic tool for organizations
to stay ahead in the ever evolving
landscape of information security
challenges you might be aware that as a
part of compliance all Cloud resources
need to be set up in a particular way
such as having access restrictions in
place
but wouldn't it require a large amount
of time and effort to manually configure
different types of resources
individually fortunately Microsoft Azure
offers a solution for getting around
this task in this video you learn about
Azure Blueprints and how you can use it
to facilitate a move to the cloud Azure
blueprints as its name suggests is like
a blueprint for building and setting up
Azure services and resources in a
consistent and compliant manner it aids
organiz ations in defining a repeatable
set of azure resources that adhere to
requirements and standards These
Blueprints are effectively templates
that can be used to quickly spin up
fully governed
environments think of them as a design
pattern for cloud environments the power
of azure blueprints lies in its ability
to enforce standards across multiple
projects or teams this ensures
consistent policy implementation and
resource conventions promoting both
efficiency and
compliance Azure blueprint is
essentially a template that encompasses
Azure resources policy assignments role
assignments and more once defined a
blueprint can be applied to different
Scopes such as a subscription Resource
Group or Management Group offering
varying levels of
granularity one interesting aspect of
azure blueprint is its scope of
application the scope in this context
refers to the level of granularity at
which you can enforce behaviors it means
that organizations can Define different
standards for various levels or units
thereby offering a balance between
centralized governance and flexibility
for
teams another fundamental concept
associated with Azure blueprints is
resource locking which prevents any
unwanted changes to the resources
defined in the blueprint when a
blueprint is assigned the defined
resources and configurations are locked
ensuring compliance with the
organizational standards this feature is
pivotal in maintaining the Integrity of
deployments especially in environments
where adherence to strict guidelines is
Paramount Additionally the sequence in
which resources are deployed via a
blueprint is not
arbitrary there is a defined order to
ensure dependencies are handled
correctly and the desired end state is
achieved by understanding this
deployment sequence organizations can
better predict and plan their
infrastructure deployments ensuring a
smoother roll out out of
resources as organizations shift to the
cloud the lines between development and
operations are fading agile practices
have accelerated team deployments making
reliable and consistent Cloud
infrastructure essential consequently
infrastructure is now seamlessly
integrated into the development process
demanding a unified management approach
for both infrastructure and application
code to address these challenges the
concept of infrastructure as code or IAC
is adopted in this approach the
infrastructure needed for an application
is defined in code which is then
versioned and stored in a source
repository similar to application code
this enables team members to easily
deploy consistent and similar
environments by executing this code for
Azure based Solutions Azure resource
manager or arm templates are recommended
for implementing
IAC these templates are Json files that
Define the infrastructure and its
configurations they employ a declarative
syntax allowing you to outline what
resources are to be deployed and their
properties without having to specify the
sequence of commands to create them this
makes the infrastructure easily
replicable and reliable for Agile
development teams Azure Blueprints and
arm templates serve different yet
complimentary roles in Azure deployment
and
management Azure blueprints is a service
designed for environment setup
encompassing resource groups policies
role assignments and arm template
deployments think of a blueprint as a
comprehensive package that combines
these artifact types allowing for
composition versioning and integration
into continuous integration and
continuous deployment or cicd
pipelines once a blueprint is assigned
to a subscription it provides an
auditable and trackable process on the
other hand arm templates primarily
facilitate Azure deployments they don't
natively exist in Azure and are stored
either locally in Source control or in
templates
preview once resources are deployed
using an arm template there's no
lingering connection between the
deployed resources and the
template the standout feature of azure
blueprint is its ability to preserve the
relationship between the blueprint
definition and its
assignment this ensures enhanced
tracking and auditing
moreover Azure blueprints can
simultaneously update multiple
subscriptions governed by a single
blueprint however it's essential to
understand that arm templates and Azure
blueprints aren't mutually exclusive
each blueprint can incorporate multiple
arm template artifacts ensuring that
prior investments in developing a
library of arm templates can be
seamlessly integrated into Azure
blueprints Azure blueprints by their
very nature are designed to enforce
specific behaviors and
configurations when an organization
needs to maintain compliance with
standards like ISO they can craft
blueprints that align with these
standards once applied These Blueprints
ensure that every deployment within
their scope adheres to the defined
guidelines this not only helps in
achieving compliance but also
significantly eases the burden of
maintaining it over time in this video
you discovered that Azure Blueprints and
arm templates are instrumental tools for
organizations transitioning to the cloud
striving for consistent and compliant
infrastructure
deployment while arm templates offer a
code Centric approach to defining
infrastructure Azure blueprints serve as
a holistic package for setting up
governed environments ensuring
consistency and tracking deployments
Azure blueprints unique feature of
preserving relationships between
definitions and assignments facilitates
enhanced tracking while its capability
for resource locking safeguards
deployment
Integrity significantly when
organizations aim to adhere to rigorous
standards like ISO Azure blueprints
emerged as a pivotal asset by aligning
blueprints with these standards
organizations can seamlessly achieve and
maintain compliance making the process
both efficient and
reliable previously you learned how
Azure blueprints can help you set up
Azure resources and services in effect
facilitating a move to the cloud in this
video you'll be guided through the
process for creating a
blueprint this includes setting a role
assignment policy assignment Resource
Group and Azure resource manager
template the first step is to access the
Microsoft Azure portal by visiting the
URL portal. azure.com on the homepage
select blueprints within the Azure
Services section to open the blueprints
page here select the create button found
beneath the create a blueprint section
on this page you'll be given the option
to choose from a selection of predefined
blueprint samples but let's select start
with blank blueprint to build one from
scratch provide a blueprint name such as
my
blueprint note that you can use up to 48
letters and numbers but no spaces or
special characters leave the blueprint
description blank for now you'll next
set a definition location select the
ellipses button beside the definition
location box in the window on the right
open the drop- down menu and select the
management group or subscription where
you want to save the blueprint in this
case I will select Azure subscription
one and then choose
select before you continue verify that
the information is correct the blueprint
name and definition location Fields
can't be changed later then select next
artifacts at the bottom of the page so
that you can begin in adding artifacts
to the blueprint let's first add a role
assignment at the subscription level to
do so under subscription select add
artifact the add artifact window opens
on the right side of the browser for the
artifact type select role assignment
uncheck the Box beside this value should
be specified when the blueprint is
assigned in the add user app or group
menu select a user which in this case
will be Joe from Sam's scoop
for the role select contributor finally
select add to add this artifact to the
blueprint next you'll need to add a
policy assignment at the subscription
Level under the role assignment artifact
select add artifact for the artifact
type select policy
assignment change the type to built-in
and then in the search box enter tag
within the search results scroll down as
needed and select a pent tag and its
value to Resource groups select add to
add this artifact to the
blueprint the next step is to add a
resource Group at the subscription level
so once again under subscription select
add artifact for the artifact type
select Resource Group leave the artifact
display name Resource Group name and
location boxes blank make sure that the
checkbox is checked for each parameter
property to make make them Dynamic
parameters then select add to add this
artifact to the
blueprint you now have several artifacts
in place but you're not done just yet
now it's time to add a template under
the resource Group under Resource Group
select add artifact for the artifact
type select Azure resource manager
template set the artifact display name
to storage account and leave the
description blank in the editor box
beneath the template tab you'll need to
add the code for an arm template you can
find a text file containing this code by
selecting download beneath this video
and then selecting the arm template file
or by opening the link in the additional
resources if you're following along go
ahead and copy the code and paste it
into the editor select add to add this
artifact to the
blueprint your completed blueprint
should appear similar to what I have on
screen in the par parameters column
notice that each artifact has X Out of Y
parameters
populated the dynamic parameters are set
during each assignment of the
blueprint now that you've added all
planned artifacts select save draft at
the bottom of the page to save your
blueprint this will return you to the
blueprints definitions page and you'll
find my blueprint in the list in this
video you found out what goes into
defining a custom blueprint specifically
you added a role assignment policy
assignment Resource Group and Azure
resource manager template recently you
were LED through the steps for creating
an Azure
blueprint but perhaps you're wondering
how blueprints differ from policies in
this video you'll learn how to
differentiate between the two and better
understand the relationship between them
a blueprint is a package or container
for composing Focus specific sets of
Standards patterns and requirements
related to the Imp implementation of
azure cloud services security and design
that can be reused to maintain
consistency and compliance a policy is a
default allow and explicit deny system
focused on resourced properties during
deployment and for already existing
resources it supports Cloud governance
by validating that resources within a
subscription adhere to requirements and
standards now let's explore a few of the
built-in policies that are avail
aailable in
Azure to view all the policy definitions
you need to visit Azure policy you can
do this by entering policy into the
search bar at the top of the Azure
portal and then selecting
policy next select definitions in the
left pane in the search field enter nist
and select nist SP 853 rev 4 from the
resulting list on this page you'll find
a list of policies associated with this
stand standard this covers topics as
wide ranging as auditing and role-based
access control but let's pick a specific
policy to zero in
on select develop Access Control
policies and procedures to review it
inside of this policy definition you'll
find a template available artifacts and
several other
details now return to the main
definitions page and search for
separation this produces a list of
policies related to separation of Duties
then select nist SP 853 rev4 once more
and conduct the same search and you'll
get a list of only the policies
connected to this standard select Define
access authorizations to support
separation of Duties to review this
policy in Greater detail in this video
you learned about the differences
between Blueprints and policies in Azure
as well as the relationship between them
previously you were introduced used to
some laws and standards such as the
information security management act or
isma and International Organization for
standardization or ISO standards in this
video you'll continue by exploring
control objectives for information and
related Technologies otherwise known as
Coit you'll also explore the Azure audit
program with the information systems
audit and Control Association or isaka
let's first Define what cobit is cobit
is a framework for information
technology or it governance and
management it was created by isaka in
1996 and is a global professional
association that focuses on information
and cyber security governance Assurance
risk and
privacy Coit helps organizations align
their it goals with their business
objectives optimize their it resources
and processes and manage it risks and
compliance kobit started as a set of
control objectives for it audits but has
evolved into a comprehensive framework
that addresses aspects like planning
delivery support monitoring and
evaluation it provides guidance on
implementing and assessing it controls
best practices maturity models
performance indicators and
benchmarks Coit operates on the
following five key principles address
stakeholder needs involves identifying
and prioritizing the needs of
stakeholders such as customers employees
and regulators
it helps balance the benefits risks and
resources of it Investments the next
principle is cover the Enterprise end to
endend where all it related activities
and processes are covered
comprehensively it integrates seamlessly
with other Frameworks and standards like
information technology infrastructure
library or iil ISO the committee of
sponsoring organizations or coo and the
National Institute of Standards and
technology or nist thirdly apply a
single single integrated framework
offers a structured approach to it
governance and management that guides
organizations to customize the framework
to their specific
needs the enable a holistic approach
principle considers all factors that
influence its's performance and outcomes
such as people processes technology and
organizational
structures it provides Dimensions like
stakeholders goals life cycle and good
practices to enhance it
enablers finally with separate
governance from management Coit
distinguishes between governance and
management roles and
responsibilities governance aligns it
objectives with business objectives and
directs it management while management
executes it activities and processes
following the governance
Direction so essentially copit is a
holistic framework for achieving
strategic alignment managing risks and
optimizing resources in the it domain
based on clear principles and
customizable
guidelines Coit consists of four main
components namely the Coit core model
the kobit performance management system
the kobit design and implementation
guides and the kobit assessment program
the kobit core model defines essential
elements of it governance and management
across five
domains evaluate direct and monitor or
EDM align plan and organize or APO build
acquire and implement or ba I deliver
service and support or abbreviated as
DSS and monitor evaluate and assess or
MAA each domain encompasses several
processes with specific goals practices
activities inputs outputs roles
responsibilities and metrics the covid
performance management system measures
and monitors it performance and outcomes
using a balanced scorecard approach it
defines t targets including Enterprise
it related enabler and process goals and
employes performance indicators to track
and Report
achievement then Coit design and
implementation guides inform design and
implementation of an IT governance and
management system based on the two
previous components it covers topics
like business case development
stakeholder analysis Gap analysis road
map development change management and
continuous Improvement
lastly the Coit Assessment program
evaluates the maturity and capability of
it processes using the kobit process
assessment model or Pam and the
iso 15504
standard it provides self assessments
facilitated assessments and formal
assessments to accomplish this each
component plays a crucial role in
helping organizations align their it
goals with business objectives this
ensures optimal it performance and
establishes a well-governed and Managed
IT environment now that you understand
what Coit is let's move on to the Azure
audit program the Azure audit program is
a guide created by isaka for Auditors to
evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness
of cloud services provided by Microsoft
Azure this ensures that its
implementation supports the
organizations's operational and
compliance objectives the Azure audit
program evaluates the following domains
governance network configuration and
management identity and access
management resource security logging and
monitoring security and incident
response and data encryption
controls let's explore each of these one
at a time governance assesses The
Establishment and implementation of a
governance framework the alignment with
business objectives and risk management
for Azure network configuration and
management evaluates the secure and
efficient configuration and management
of network resources and security
controls to protect Network traffic and
data identity and access management then
reviews The implementation and
maintenance of identity and access
management systems and assesses the
enforcement of security principles for
Azure users and roles one useful tool
here is Microsoft entra ID protection
which helps organizations detect
investigate and remediate identity based
risks these risks can be passed on to
conditional access to make access
decisions or fed back to a security
information and event management or Sim
tool for further investigation resource
security assesses the security of azure
resources and leverages Azure Security
Services to enhance the security posture
and visibility of its
resources logging and monitoring
analyzes whether Azure logging and
monitoring Services have been enabled
and configured properly to collect and
analyze operational and security data
the security incident response domain
evaluates The Establishment and
implementation of a security incident
response plan for Azure and data
encryption controls examines the
encryption strategies deployed for data
whether it's at rest in transit or being
processed the program is aligned with
the nist cyber security framework it
Maps the audit areas and objectives to
the framework's core functions which are
identify protect detect respond and
recover recall that these functions
assist Auditors and organizations in
evaluating and enhancing their Azure
cyber security
practices this framework also provides a
collection of Standards guidelines and
best practices for managing cyber
security risk in this video you learn
that kobit is a comprehensive framework
for it governance and management it
assists organiz ganizations in aligning
it objectives with business goals
optimizing resources and managing
risks the four principle components of
cobit are the cobit core model
Performance Management System design and
implementation guides and the assessment
program Additionally you know that the
Azure audit program is a guide for
appraising the compliance of azure
service
implementations the program is mapped to
the nist cyber security framework and
strengthens an organization cyber
security
stance cloud computing is a rapidly
growing and evolving technology that
offers many benefits for Enterprises
such as scalability flexibility cost
efficiency and
Innovation however cloud computing also
introduces new challenges and risks such
as data privacy security compliance and
governance therefore Enterprises need to
adopt appropriate Frameworks and
standards to ensure that their cloud
services are aligned with their business
objectives stakeholder needs and
regulatory
requirements the National Institute of
Standards and technology or nist control
objectives for information and related
Technologies or cobit and the Microsoft
Azure audit program are three examples
of such Frameworks and standards that
help Enterprises manage and audit their
cloud services effectively and
efficiently in this video you'll
discover the steps to define the Privacy
requirements for cl cloud services using
these Frameworks and standards there are
resources that first prepare you to
Define cloud service privacy
requirements organizing these
Preparatory resources involves Gathering
Vital Information this consists of
business objectives which relate to an
Enterprise's guiding principles like
vision mission values goals and
strategies stakeholder needs which
include expectations and requirements
from all parties with an interest in
cloud services including customers
employees regulators and more legal and
Regulatory obligations are the laws and
standards that dictate how sensitive
data is handled in the cloud including
General data protection regulation or
gdpr health insurance portability and
accountability act or Hippa and the
payment card industry data security
standards known as PCI DSS another
Preparatory resource is gathering cloud
service provider details contracts and
policies from the cloud provider that
outline the terms of service privacy
policies and data handling
practices an Enterprises privacy
framework involves existing privacy
policies and procedures that guide the
organization's privacy management this
includes risk assessment processes
privacy training and incident response
plans then privacy risk assessment is an
evaluation of potential risks associated
with cloud services like unauthorized
data access legal non-compliance and
reputational damage and privacy impact
assessment is an analysis of how cloud
services might impact privacy detailing
necessary controls and measures to
ensure data protection and compliance
it's important that you know how to
determine privacy capabilities which
includes assessing both the current and
desired privacy abilities of an
Enterprise and its cloud service
provider it is structured around the
nist Privacy framework comprised of the
core profiles and implementation
tiers the core outlines the fundamental
privacy functions categories and
subcategories it details relevant
outcomes and activities for cloud
services and includes the following five
functions identify govern control
communicate and
protect recall that these functions
assist Auditors and organiz izations in
evaluating and enhancing their Azure
cyber security practices each function
expands into categories and
subcategories in the nist Privacy
framework document which you can read
later in additional
resources next are the profiles that
represent the existing and desired
privacy outcomes based on Enterprise
objectives stakeholder needs and risk
appetite pinpointing the Privacy
capability gaps and Improvement
opportunities Prof files are formulated
by selecting and prioritizing relevant
subcategories from the core based on the
urgency and importance of the Privacy
outcomes then implementation tiers
denote the degree of privacy risk
management practices in place ranging
from partial to Adaptive these tiers are
determined by evaluating various factors
like current and Target risk postures
threat environment legal requirements
and resource
constraints it assists in assessing and
conveying the maturity and efficacy of
privacy risk management in place for
both the Enterprise and the cloud
service provider another pivotal step is
defining privacy requirements this
involves establishing specific privacy
stipulations for cloud services and
utilizing the Coit framework and the
Azure audit program recall that the Coit
framework supplies a comprehensive set
of goals practices roles
responsibilities and metrics across the
following five domains evaluate direct
and monitor or EDM align plan and
organize or APO build acquire and
implement or Bai deliver service and
support or abbreviated as DSS and
monitor evaluate and SS or
mea these domains contain varied
processes detailed within the Coit
framework document you can access this
in additional resources the Azure audit
program offers evaluative control
statements and meticulous testing
procedures across different areas of
azure deployment such as governance
network configuration and management
identity and access management resource
security logging and monitoring security
incident response and data encryption
controls each area includes specific
objectives and controls that are in the
Azure audit program document feel free
to access this doc doent in additional
resources a bit
later next is privacy requirements
derivation privacy requirements for
cloud services are derived by aligning
and integrating the Coit framework with
the Azure audit program adapting to the
Enterprises specific context and needs
these requirements are expressed as
statements that specify the expected
outcomes and activities such as
establishing and implementing privacy
governance Frameworks configuring and
managing Azure Network resources
securely implementing and maintaining
identity and access management systems
securing Azure Resources with
appropriate controls enabling and
configuring logging and monitoring
Services establishing and implementing
security incident response plans and
encrypting personal and sensitive
information both in transit and address
in compliance with relevant domains of
Coit areas of the Azure audit program
and the nist Privacy framework in this
video you learned that within cloud
computing where Enterprises benefit from
scalability flexibility and cost
efficiency but they also grapple with
challenges such as data privacy security
compliance and
governance properly organizing
Preparatory resources understanding
privacy capabilities and clearly
defining privacy requirements become
Paramount by leveraging robust
Frameworks and standards like nist cobit
and the Microsoft Azure audit program
ENT Enterprises can adaptly navigate the
complexities of cloud services through a
systematic approach and the integration
of these guiding resources organizations
can align their Cloud strategies with
business objectives stakeholder
expectations and Regulatory mandates
ensuring a secure and compliant Cloud
environment previously you learned that
the National Institute of Standards and
technology or Nest control objectives
for information and related Technologies
or cobit and the Microsoft aure audit
program are three Frameworks that help
Enterprises achieve effective governance
and management of their information and
technology in the cloud however
implementing these Frameworks is not a
one-time activity but a continuous
process that requires monitoring and
adapting to changes in the cloud
environment the business objectives the
stakeholder needs and the legal and
regulatory requirements in this video
you'll start learning about the Privacy
risk assessment how to create privacy
and conclude with with the steps and
best practices for monitoring change in
the context of these Frameworks the
first step is to conduct a privacy risk
assessment or P for cloud services that
enterprises use or intend to use but
what is it a p is a systematic process
of identifying analyzing evaluating and
treating the Privacy risks associated
with the collection processing storage
transfer and disclosure of personal data
and other sensitive information in the
cloud a p can help an Enterprise to
determine the Privacy impact and
benefits of cloud services privacy
controls and measures that are needed to
mitigate the Privacy
risks it enhances the Privacy benefits
as well as the Privacy roles and
responsibilities of the Enterprise and
the cloud service provider or CSP it
also helps an Enterprise to comply with
the legal and Regulatory obligations
such as the general data protection
regulation gdpr the health health
insurance portability and accountability
act or Hippa and the payment card
industry data security standard
abbreviated as PCI DSS the second step
is to create a privacy requirements
traceability Matrix or prtm for cloud
services a prtm is a document that Maps
the Privacy requirements derived from
the P to the Privacy controls and
measures implemented by the Enterprise
and the CSP a PRM can help the
Enterprise to ensure that the Privacy
requirements are adequately and
effectively addressed by the cloud
services and AIDS in verifying and
validating the Privacy controls and
measures it assists the Enterprise in
communicating and coordinating with the
CSP on privacy expectations and
obligations and monitors and measures
the Privacy performance and compliance
of the cloud services the third step is
to monitor change in the cloud
environment business objectives
stakeholder needs and the legal and
Regulatory
requirements change can occur due to
various factors such as the introduction
of new cloud services or features the
modification or termination of existing
cloud services or contracts the
emergence of new privacy threats or
incidents the evolution of the business
strategy or goals the feedback or
complaints from the data subjects or
other stakeholders and the updates or
changes in the privacy laws or
regulations change can affect the
Privacy risk profile the Privacy impact
and benefits privacy requirements
privacy controls and measures and the
Privacy roles and responsibilities of
the Enterprise and the
CSP therefore the Enterprise should
establish a change management process
that can identify assess approve
Implement document and communicate the
changes in a timely and consistent
manner the change management process
should also involve updating the p and
the PRM accordingly and conducting
periodic review RWS and audits of the
cloud services to ensure that they
remain aligned with the Privacy
requirements and expectations the nist
Coit and the Microsoft Azure audit
program Frameworks can provide guidance
and tools for the Enterprise to conduct
the pr create the prtm and monitor
change in the cloud for example the nist
Privacy framework provides a set of
privacy outcomes and activities that can
help the Enterprise to identify and
manage the Privacy risks and
opportunities in the cloud
then kobit provides a set of governance
and management objectives and practices
that can help the Enterprise to align
the cloud services with the business
objectives and stakeholder needs and to
Monitor and evaluate the cloud
performance and
compliance the Microsoft Azure audit
program provides a set of audit
objectives and procedures that can help
the Enterprise to assess the adequacy
and effectiveness of the Azure
deployment and to ensure that the Azure
implementation securely supports the
operation and compliance objectives in
this video you learn that it's
imperative to ensure privacy and
compliance in Cloud environments nist
cobit and the Microsoft Azure audit
program benefit Enterprises by
strategically navigating the dynamic
landscape of cloud governance essential
steps such as conducting a privacy risk
assessment creating a privacy
requirements traceability matrics and
instituting robust change management
processes are
Paramount these not only help in
identifying and mitigating risks but
also ensure that cloud services
continuously align with evolving
business objectives stakeholder
expectations and Regulatory demands by
adhering to these best practices
Enterprises can foster a cloud
environment that is both secure and
compliant bolstering stakeholder trust
and operational
resilience nice work completing laws and
standards by getting to this point you
should now have a stronger grasp of the
major regulations and guidelines that
every organization should adhere to when
it comes to data management you also
became aware of the tools and features
in Microsoft Azure that make compliance
an easier goal to achieve before you
move on let's review the key Concepts
that you covered this week you first
became familiar with the federal
information security management act or
fsma a legislation in the US that
established a framework for federal
organizations to handle data securely
you found that fsma is based on six
primary Cate categories which are risk
categorization minimum Baseline controls
document the controls in the system
security plan refined controls using a
risk assessment procedure annual
Security review and monitoring the
security controls on a continuous basis
the US government also has the federal
risk and authorization Management
program or fed ramp which is a
standardized approach for cloud services
to be assessed monitored and authorized
next you learned about the National
Institute of Standards and technology or
nist the agency behind a universal
framework that aligns sound cyber
security practices with business
objectives the nist framework enables
organizations to describe their current
cyber security posture outline their
cyber security goals identify and
prioritize opportunities for improvement
within the context of a continuous and
repeatable process track progress to the
desired State and share information
about cyber security risk with both
internal and external parties following
nist you were introduced to the
surveyance Oxley act or socks a US
federal law intended to protect
investors from fraudulent accounting
activities by corporations to do so it
protects investors through a transparent
approach to financial information
enforces regular audits to ensure
accuracy of financial statements
enhances accountability in corporate
governance and implements automated
controls to to minimize human error you
then became familiar with the general
data protection regulation or gdpr this
is a law that mandates how organizations
must handle the data of residents of the
European Union in short gdpr allows
individuals greater control over their
information such as having the rights to
delete access or Port their data upon
request later you shifted your attention
to the standards set by the
International Organization for
standardization or o you focused on ISO
2701 in particular which relates to
Information Security Management aspects
such as risk management and compliance
this standard establishes guidelines for
an information security management
system or isms by providing a framework
for establishing implementing operating
monitoring reviewing maintaining and
improving an isms you then explored some
features of Microsoft Azure that assist
with compliance to this standard first
there was Azure blueprints a service for
creating compliant templates known as
blueprints to facilitate a move to the
cloud a blueprint encompasses Azure
resources policy assignments role
assignments and more blueprints can be
applied to different Scopes such as
subscriptions resource groups or
management groups you compared
blueprints against asual resource
manager or arm templates these are used
to define and store Cloud infrastructure
as code which enables easy deployment of
similar environments blueprints can
incorporate arm template artifacts
ensuring easy integration you were
guided through the steps for creating a
blueprint including how to add role
assignments policy assignments resource
groups and arm templates you next moved
on to learning about control objectives
for information and related Technologies
otherwise known as Coit this is a
framework for information technology or
it govern governance and management it
helps organizations align their it goals
with their business objectives optimize
their it resources and processes and
manage it risks and
compliance Coit consists of four main
components the cobit core model which
defines essential elements of it
governance and management the Coit
Performance Management System to measure
and monitor it performance and outcomes
the Coit design and implementation
guides which help with design and
implement ation of an IT governance and
management system and the Coit
Assessment program for evaluating it
processes against the
iso 15504 standard finally you
discovered the Azure audit program a
guide for Auditors to appraise the
adequacy of Microsoft azures cloud
services across several domains these
are governance network configuration and
management identity and access
management resource security logging and
monitoring security incident response
and data encryption controls you learned
that information security Frameworks can
best serve organizations when a few key
practices are followed namely
determining privacy capabilities
defining privacy requirements conducting
privacy risk assessments creating a
privacy requirements traceability Matrix
and monitoring changes in the cloud
environment business objectives
stakeholder needs and the legal and
regulatory requirements
by completing laws and standards you
better understand the regulations and
guidelines that mandate how
organizations manage data and you know
how to use Microsoft Azure solutions to
ensure compliance with these
requirements well done you're almost at
the end of cyber security management and
compliance during this phase of your
journey you've greatly increased your
understanding of what it takes to set up
a cloud environment in a secure and
compliant manner you've taken in new
ideas you've Tak taken in new ideas
through videos and readings and you
applied what you learned in quizzes and
exercises next you'll synthesize all
this knowledge to complete a final
project and a comprehensive assessment
but before you do let's revisit the most
important Concepts that you became
familiar with over the past several
weeks in Cloud security planning you
became aware of the key security
considerations for planning a
cloud-based system such as preparing for
service disruptions using tools like
Azure site recovery and Azure backup and
best practices for data storage and
Disposal securing network access and
safeguarding physical
infrastructure you also discovered
Enterprise application integration for
securely sharing data across
applications to create a more
streamlined workflow and collecting
storing and analyzing security Logs with
Azure monitor Azure Sentinel and log
analytics you then learned about the
Azure Cloud adoption framework or calf
an approach which combines best
practices documentation tools and
assessments to facilitate a move to the
cloud CF is Guided by Five Points of
security to prioritize data safety which
are zero trust Access Control security
operations focusing on detection
including response and Recovery asset
protection strategies security
governance for maintaining a consistent
security posture and innovative secur
practices that align with operational
practices you were then introduced to
Microsoft's six privacy principles that
guide data management and administration
and inform many Microsoft tools and
services these are user control
transparency security legal protections
no content-based targeting and benefits
for the customer you concluded this week
by learning about steps to achieve
availability and continuity availability
refers ref to the accessibility and
functionality of systems and services
whereas continuity involves maintaining
critical business functions or quickly
recovering after a disaster or failure
next you learned about compliance
management or ensuring organizational
adherence to regulatory legal and
Company standards and policies Microsoft
perview a comprehensive data management
solution AIDS this process with tools
such as records management for
organizing legal and business critical
records automated data classification
with pattern-based sensitive information
types and AI powered trainable
classifiers Microsoft perview data map
for better understanding the where who
and how of an organization's data and
Microsoft purview policy for specifying
actions effects data resources and
subjects with policy statements you
found that on top of external threats
organizations must be mindful of Insider
risk which concerns the potential of
sensitive dat data being compromised by
authorized users either by accident or
intentionally Microsoft tools for
mitigating these risks include user
activity reports and the alerts
dashboard in perview and communication
compliance information barriers and
privileged access management in
Microsoft
365 you then continue to information
protection and data life cycle this life
cycle consists of the creation or
capture of data processing data to
prepare it for use or analysis accessing
and making use of the data archiving
data that may be useful later and
deleting or purging data that is not
needed Microsoft has identified four
guiding principles for engaging with
data throughout the life cycle which are
to know your data such as the categories
and risks that are present protect it to
prevent unwanted access prevent data
loss by limiting sharing and govern data
to ensure proper retention and Disposal
proposal you explored the features of
Microsoft perview that help
organizations align with these
principles such as labels and classes
for categorizing data and specifying
sensitivity policies to set conditional
access and Privileges and disposition
review for informed decision making on
data retention or disposal moving on you
became aware of major regulations and
guidelines that concern data
management these include the federal
information security management Act or
fsma a US legislation that bolsters the
security framework for federal
information systems and the National
Institute of Standards and technology or
nist a globally recognized framework
that helps organizations systematically
manage cyber security risk there is also
the surban Oxley act or socks a US law
that protects investors from fraudulent
accounting activities and the general
data protection regulation or gdpr which
sets regulations for organizations that
handle the data of European union or EU
residents you next examined the security
standards defined by the International
Organization for standardization or ISO
the iso 2701 standard in particular
features guidelines for an information
security management system or isms it
provides a framework for establishing
implementing operating monitoring
reviewing maintaining and improving an
isms to align with these standards
Microsoft offers Azure blueprints a tool
for setting up Azure services and
resources in a consistent and compliant
manner a blueprint is essentially a
template that encompasses Azure
resources policy assignments role
assignments and more blueprints combine
well with Azure resource manager or arm
templates which Define and store Cloud
infrastructure as code for easy
deployment of similar environments you
closed out the week with control
objectives for information and related
technology Tech Oles or Coit this Frame
helps organizations align their
information technology or it goals with
their business objectives optimize their
it resources and processes and manage it
risks and compliance Microsoft's Azure
audit program is informed by covid
standards and guides Auditors to assess
implementation of cloud services across
several domains which are governance
network configuration and management
identity and access management resource
security logging and monitoring security
incident response and data encryption
controls and that wraps up this review
of what you learned in cyber security
management and
compliance now that you've built a
strong base of knowledge on cloud
security planning compliance management
using Microsoft Solutions and laws and
standards concerning the handling of
data you're ready to prove yourself by
completing the final project and the
final course assessment good luck
congratul ulations on reaching the end
of the cyber security management and
compliance course you now know that in
the absence of any organization lacking
a robust security posture security
vulnerabilities can be leveraged to gain
access to confidential and sensitive
information cyber criminals are always
on the plow for loopholes or
vulnerabilities that can be exploited
therefore every organization must comply
with changing laws and Industry
standards to maintain security control
and avoid any breaches it's imperative
that they are proactive in their
approach by continuously monitoring and
assessing devices networks and Systems
Failing to do so can lead to financial
or legal penalties mistrust between
customers and stakeholders or
reputational damage which is difficult
to recover from however you can avoid
consequences such as these because you
have covered data and record management
information security implementing
standards and policies Cloud adoption
Frameworks and Regulatory Compliance
Frameworks by getting to this point you
should have a solid high level
understanding of how to better manage
your cyber security increase your
security posture to avoid breaches and
ensure that you adhere to laws and
standards to become compliant you
examined areas in Security
Administration where you specifically
addressed security planning and Disaster
Recovery as well as data management and
availability in comp sence Solutions you
realize why data and Records management
as well as Insider risk threat detection
and mitigation are
important this included dealing with
data mapping and the data life cycle you
then concluded with laws and standards
where you zoned in on industry and
geopolitical specific regulations you
know what the trust portal is and how to
use it to adhere to these laws for
organizational
compliance so essentially you learned
about the the principles of cloud
security planning what the identity
security requirements for cloud
architecture are Microsoft's privacy
principles and the available tools you
have at your disposal for compliance
management remember that completing this
course contributes towards gaining the
cyber security analyst professional
certificate from
corsera this professional certificate is
designed to equip you with the necessary
skills to become job ready for an in
demand career in cyber sec security all
the courses in this program including
the one you just completed prepare you
for the exam sc900 Microsoft security
compliance and identity fundamentals
this globally recognized certification
is industry endorsed evidence of your
technical skills and knowledge the sc900
exam measures your ability to describe
the following concepts of security
compliance and identity capabilities of
Microsoft Azure active directory which
is part of Microsoft entra capabilities
of Microsoft Security Solutions and
capabilities of Microsoft compliance
solutions to complete the exam you
should be familiar with Microsoft Azure
and Microsoft 365 and understand how
Microsoft security compliance and
identity strategies provides an endtoend
solution across these platforms visit
the Microsoft certifications page at
www.learn.cashtracking.com
to learn more about the security
compliance and identity fundamental
certification and exam so you've now
established how compliance tools can
help your organization in adhering to
the various laws and standards but what
comes next there's still so much to
learn so a good move would be to dig
deeper into cloud-based security you can
do so by registering for the next course
in the program doing so will only
enhance your cyber security analyst
portfolio and help help you gain the
appropriate skills that you need to
demonstrate your abilities in the
workplace completing all the courses in
the Microsoft cyber security analyst
program will signal to potential
employers that you are a willing
motivated and capable individual through
such significant progress you've
demonstrated that you have grit and
perseverance bringing you thus far well
done I'm excited for the rest of your
journey ahead so keep up the good
work welcome to this advanced cyber
security Concepts and Capstone project
course by now you have completed several
cyber security courses well done on your
progress so far now it's time to bring
all that Knowledge and Skills together
the course invites you to unravel the
mysteries of the ever evolving cyber
security landscape Cutting Edge defense
and mitigation mechanisms and common
attacks whether you're a seasoned
professional or an aspiring security
Guru this course will Challenge and
inspire you to think like a true cyber
security expert and in this video you
will go through a quick overview of what
you will cover in this course let's go
through the content to make sure you're
ready the course starts off with the
topics of threat modeling and common
mitigation steps you will learn about
how you can manage and reduce the risk
of threats to an organization or system
and you will learn about threat threat
modeling strategies and how threat
modeling Works in Azure you will then
move on to Advanced threats and
mitigation where you will learn about
what kinds of infrastructure is
susceptible to attack and what kind of
attacks might occur this part of the
course covers threat vectors ransomware
defense in-depth security Cloud security
network and data security and monitoring
Security in azure specifically you will
learn about the internet of things or
iot and common attacks launched on such
infrastructure next is security
conscious modeling here you will learn
about entry points and their Associated
risks secure network design with a
defense in-depth security approach and
mitigation strategies throughout this
course you will get the opportunity to
apply your newly gained skills in
exercises and self-reviews before going
through an Exemplar as a possible
solution to the cyber security challenge
you're presented with the final part of
the course is all about producing a
focused security mitigation strategy
plan for a business this Capstone
project consolidates the knowledge
you've acquired from previous courses
culminating in a standalone portfolio
piece that showcases your newly
developed s cyber security
skills after this Hands-On learning you
will complete a final graded assessment
but be assured that everything you need
to complete the assessment will be
covered during your learning with each
lesson made up of video content readings
and quizzes when you complete all of the
courses in the program you'll earn a
corsera certificate to share with your
Professional Network and you will have
tangible examples to talk about in your
job interviews you'll also be prepared
to take the Microsoft sc900 exam and
earn your Microsoft certification this
certification is globally recognized
evidence of Real World skills it shows
your commitment to keeping Pace with
rapidly changing technology by expanding
your skill set in your professional
roles in summary this course not only
provides you with a detailed overview of
advanced cyber security Concepts it also
gives you several opportunities to
practically apply the skills you have
learned now that you've reached the end
of this course introduction it's time to
continue your cyber security Journey
with the constant threat of cyber
attacks it's critical for security teams
to stay one step ahead of attackers the
old saying prevention is better than
cure is especially relevant in the world
of cyber security and threat modeling is
one of the best preventive ways to
protect organizations from cyber attacks
threat modeling is a process for
identifying and addressing security
threats to your applications by
following the three steps of threat
modeling you can improve the security of
your applications and protect your
organization from cyber attacks in this
video you will discover the three steps
of threat modeling these are decompose
the application determine and rank
threats and determine counter measures
and
mitigation let's start with step one
which is decomposing the
application when decomposing an
application it is essential to consider
all its different components and how
attackers could interact with the
application through these
components components of an application
include the user interface this is the
part of the application that users
interact with directly it is important
to consider how an attacker could
exploit vulnerabilities in the user
interface such as input validation
errors to gain access to the application
or to steal data another component is
the database where the application
stores its data think of how an attacker
could gain access to the database such
as through SQL injection attacks or how
they could corrupt the data next is the
backend code ask yourself how attackers
could exploit vulnerabilities in the
code that runs the application for
instance attackers could use buffer
overflows to enter an application and
extract data the networked
infrastructure is another component this
includes the network that the
application is connected to as well as
the servers and routers that are used to
Route traffic to and from the
application How could an attacker
exploit weaknesses in the network
infrastructure an example is a man in
the middle attack which enables
unauthorized access or operational
disruption of an
application and then you should also
consider the operating system the
software that runs the computer that the
application is hosted on think about the
strategies an attacker could employ to
leverage flaws in the operating system
for example attackers might execute a
privileged escalation attack to
infiltrate an application and tamper
with its functionality
lastly you should consider the hardware
or physical components of the computer
that the application is hosted on such
as the CPU memory and storage devices
examine how an attacker could take
advantage of Hardware security
weaknesses a concrete example involves a
physical access attack granting
attackers entry to the application are
enabling operational
interference once you understand the
appc a components and how they interact
you can begin to identify potential
threats which brings you to step two of
the threat modeling process determining
and ranking threats in this step you
should consider the following factors
first the likelihood of the threat
occurring you can determine this Factor
by considering the attacker's required
skill level and the availability of
tools and resources to perform the ATT
attack also take into account the
presence or absence of security controls
aimed at preventing or halting attacks
for example an attack that can only be
executed by highly skilled attackers
with specialized tools is less likely to
occur and therefore poses a less
prominent threat than commonly executed
attacks second is the impact of the
threat if it occurs here you should
consider the loss of data the financial
impact and the damage to reputation that
an attack could cause for example a
threat that could lead to the loss of
sensitive data will have a larger impact
than one that only causes a minor
inconvenience and lastly is the ease
with which a threat can be executed
consider the complexity of the attack
the availability of information about
the attack and the visibility of the
vulnerability for example the effects of
a vulnerability that is easy to exploit
will likely be more severe than that of
a difficult one once you have considered
all of these factors you can rank the
threats in terms of
severity there are models for doing this
which you will learn more about later
let's move to the third and final step
of threat modeling determining counter
measures and mitigation counter measures
are measures you can take to prevent aat
threat from occurring while mitigations
are measures you can take to reduce the
impact of a threat if it occurs some
examples of counter measures and
mitigations include implementing
security controls like firewalls
intrusion detection systems and access
control lists next is training users on
security best practices around password
security fishing awareness and social
engineering conducting penetration
testing is also a useful countermeasure
used as a probing exercise to discover
any
vulnerabilities another example is
patching vulnerabilities the process of
applying software updates that fix
security
vulnerabilities and finally red teeming
is used to simulate an attack on
organizations by a team of Security
Professionals the specific counter
measures and mitigations you choose will
depend on the identified threats in
conclusion threat modeling is a
proactive process for identifying and
addressing security threats to your
applications to prevent possible attacks
it places security teams in the
attackers seat forcing them to
critically examine an application
security shortcomings by following the
three steps outlined in this video you
can preempt cyber assaults by improving
the security of your applications
thereby staying ahead of potential
attackers earlier you learned about the
three steps of threat modeling
decomposing the application determining
and ranking threats and determining
countermeasures and
mitigation in this video you will focus
specifically on the first step
decomposing the application you've
touched on this process of breaking down
an applications components and analyzing
their interactions to to identify
potential vulnerabilities and security
risks but there is a lot more to it it
requires putting your critical mind into
gear and thinking about an application's
essential elements but also about the
aspects surrounding it decomposing an
application is also unpacking its
purpose architecture security controls
vulnerabilities external dependencies
entry and exit points assets and Trust
levels let's Del into these technical
aspects starting with understanding the
purpose of the
application this is crucial because it
helps in recognizing the potential
motives behind attacks you can imagine
that applications dealing with sensitive
data Financial transactions or personal
information are more attractive to
attackers due to the potential
gains to gain a technical perspective
you need to categorize the types of data
the application
handles you also need to consider their
sensitivity levels and the regulatory
requirements surrounding protecting
these various types of data next is the
application's architecture which defines
its structure and the interactions
between components certain architectural
choices can unintentionally introduce
vulnerabilities for instance a
monolithic architecture might be
susceptible to single point failures
while a microservices architecture might
have security concerns around
interservice
communication a deep technical
understanding of the architecture allows
for pinpointing potential weak points
this involves analyzing how data flows
between components how apis are exposed
and whether security boundaries are
adequately
established an application security
controls are another essential aspect to
evaluate these are the mechanisms that
Safeguard the application from threats
in a technical sense this involves
assessing the effectiveness of controls
like firewalls encryption access
controls and intrusion detection systems
examining their configurations and
ensuring they align with best practices
is crucial for instance this could
involve analyzing firewall rules to
prevent unauthorized access
reviewing encryption protocols to
prevent data breaches and validating
Access Control lists to prevent
unauthorized data manipulation
identifying an application's
vulnerabilities is also pivotal this
requires technical methods like
conducting vulnerability scans and code
reviews vulnerabilities can result from
coding errors misconfigurations or the
usage of outdated libraries
a detailed examination of the code base
and its dependencies is essential in
fact regular vulnerability assessments
help to catch and address known
vulnerabilities before attackers exploit
them techniques like static analysis of
the code base can uncover coding
mistakes that might lead to security
breaches decomposing the external
dependencies of an application is also
in valuable these are components that
are outside the application but critical
to its functionality from a technical
standpoint these could be third-party
libraries apis or
Services vulnerabilities in the security
posture of dependencies can indirectly
impact the application's security it's
important to check for security updates
and understand the dependencies threat
landscape when interacting with with
dependencies it is essential to
implement proper security controls
furthermore the entry and exit points of
an application are critical aspects to
examine too entry points are Avenues
through which attackers can interact
with the
application while exit points are the
routes through which attackers can
extract data on a technical level entry
points could Encompass various attack
surfaces like the user interface network
interface es apis and input Fields exit
points on the other hand could involve
data retrieval via API unauthorized data
transfers through network interfaces or
extraction through weekly secured
database
connections identifying these points is
crucial for devising security measures
that protect against unauthorized access
and data
leakage next is an applications assets
which refer to valuable resources within
the organization like data intellectual
property or financial records from a
technical perspective this involves
classifying assets data into different
categories based on their value and
sensitivity this helps in focusing
security efforts on protecting the most
critical assets implementing data
classification ation and access controls
as well as encryption mechanisms for
sensitive data is
essential and lastly an application's
trust levels should be examined they
denote the level of trust associated
with different components of the
application in technical terms this
entails assessing the security posture
of each component for instance
considering the user interface as a
lower Trust component implies
implementing strong input validation and
output encoding mechanisms to prevent
injection attacks regarding the database
as a high trust component means
prioritizing robust authentication
encryption and access control mechanisms
to protect sensitive data in summary
decomposing an application involves an
indepth technical analysis of its
components interactions and
vulnerabilities in this video you learn
that understanding the technical nuances
of each aspect enables you to devise
comprehensive security measures that
Safeguard against a wide range of
potential threats and
attacks at the heart of effective cyber
security lies the skill of identifying
and categorizing potential threats
picture a cyber security team flooded
with alerts from various systems amidst
this digital chaos the team's skill in
categorizing threats based on severity
and potential impact becomes a Guiding
Light to focus on the most pressing
dangers but wait let's rewind a bit to
prevent this dreaded scenario threat
modeling categorizes threats before they
happen enabling teams to proactively
implement the most effective defense
strategies in this video you'll explore
the second step of threat modeling
determining and ranking threats in this
exploration you'll delve into the widely
used stride model a tool that aids in
identifying and ranking potential
threats you will discover what stride
stands for how to apply it and its
importance but first let's stop for a
moment and question the overarching goal
of threat categorization it is to
develop a sound understanding of the
threat landscape of a particular
application this clear understanding
empowers organizations to allocate their
resources with precision and prioritize
their security efforts threat
categorization entails organizing a
multitude of threats into distinct
groups based on their unique attributes
possible consequences and the techniques
employed to breach
systems Microsoft developed the stride
model to facil facilitate this
systematic analysis and categorization
of threats it enables organizations to
address vulnerabilities proactively
thwarting potential exploitation and
ultimately reducing the Peril of
security breaches stride stands for
spoofing tampering repudiation
information disclosure denial of service
and elevation of privilege you might be
familiar with these attack types so
let's run through a quick overview of
what they entail spoofing revolves
around the art of masquerading as a
legitimate entity with the intention of
acquiring unauthorized access this
manipulation could entail falsifying
crucial identifiers such as IP addresses
or email addresses to deceive
individuals or systems into granting
unauthorized access tampering is
centered on unauthorized alteration of
of data or systems this threat can
potentially instigate data corruption
unauthorized modifications or even the
syruptitious injection of malicious code
into systems repudiation pertains to the
ability to disavow a specific event or
action a classic example involves a user
denying their involvement in a
particular transaction this accentuates
the significance of maintaining accurate
and comprehensive logs for
accountability information disclosure
also termed a privacy breach or data
leak involves the unauthorized exposure
of sensitive data the ramifications can
be Dire spanning from identity theft and
the loss of Trade Secrets to
compromising user privacy denial of
service attacks are geared towards
disrupting service availability by
inundating systems with an overwhelming
influx of traffic such as assault can
incapacitate Services resulting in
financial losses and considerable damage
to reputation elevation of privilege
unfolds when a malicious actor attains
elevated access to a system granting
them authorization to execute actions
that are otherwise
prohibited this threat Harbors the
potential to compromise sensitive data
and to wield unauthorized control over
critical functions so why why does the
stride model hold such Paramount
importance well it provides a structured
methodology for thread analysis by
methodically contemplating each facet of
the stride model organizations can
gather profound insights into their
vulnerabilities and potential Avenues of
cyber attacks for instance imagine a
financial institution that employs
online banking services through the lens
of stride analysis the institution can
unearth potential threats like
fraudulent emails tampered transactional
data and unauthorized elevation of user
privileges with a firm grasp of the
stride model let's dive into its
practical
application to use this model you need
to follow a series of pivotal steps
first identify the assets start by
listing the assets that warrant
safeguarding be it databases user
accounts or sensitive data next analyze
the threats for each asset meticulously
consider how each part of the stride
model could be harnessed to compromise
its security then assess the impact
gauge the conceivable impact of each
identified threat which threats wield
the potential to inflict the most damage
or disrupt operations profoundly lastly
rank the threats prioritize threats
based on their potential impact and the
probability of
occurrence this stratification
facilitates the effective allocation of
resources after threats have been
Unearthed and ranked using the stride
model the subsequent course of action
involves mitigation this encompasses
implementing security measures to
mitigate the risks posed by each
identified threat but more on this later
in this video you learn that threat
categorization coupled with the stride
model provides an authoritative
framework for understanding scrutinizing
and countering cyber security threats
later in this lesson you will delve even
deeper into the intricacies of the
stride model not all threats are created
equal they can vary in their potential
to disrupt damage and destabilize
business resources and
operations and this is why step two of
threat modeling is so significant it's
not only about identifying risks but
also about determining their severity
and
likelihood this process transforms the
Sea of potential threats into a
structured hierarchy enabling
organizations to allocate their
resources ources time and efforts
effectively in this video you will hone
in on the process of ranking threats
earlier you learned how to use the
stride model can you recall the steps
you need to follow to apply the stride
model identify assets analyze the
threats assess the impact and rank the
threats cyber security analysts don't
only use stride when they are ranking
threats they also employ The Dread model
over the next few minutes you will learn
about this model and how to use it in
conjunction with stride in step two of
threat modeling to determine the rank of
a threat two essential factors come into
play impact and
probability impact gauges the extent of
damage that could result if a threat
materializes while probability assesses
the likelihood of the threat
occurring The Dread model provides a way
to assign numerical values to these
factors this quantitative score paints a
vivid picture of each threat's potential
consequence this score-based ranking
system enables informed
decision-making ensuring defenses are
fortified where it matters most dread
stands for five evaluation ative
Dimensions
damage
reproducibility exploitability
affected users and
discoverability when applying the dread
model you assess each dimension on a
scale from 1 to 10 with higher scores
indicating greater risk let's explore
these Dimensions starting with
damage this Dimension delves into the
potential harm a threat could inflict on
an organ ization it considers data loss
Financial impact and reputational
damage the reproducibility dimension
focuses on how easily a threat can be
replicated or exploited
repeatedly next is the exploitability
dimension which explores how easily an
attacker can take advantage of a
vulnerability to perpetuate an attack
the affected users's dimension assesses
es the scope of impact gauging the
number of users are systems that could
be compromised and finally the
discoverability dimension measures the
ease with which an attacker could find
and exploit the vulnerability by
evaluating each threat against these
dimensions a comprehensive risk profile
emerges making it easier to prioritize
and allocate resources for mitigation
efforts since the scoring system of the
dread model relies on subjective
judgment it's considered a qualitative
risk model threat modeling involves
plenty of
uncertainty in this realm where
absolutes are elusive qualitative risk
models like the dread model offer
valuable Insight the effective use of
the dread model relies heavily on Expert
judgment experience and Collective
wisdom let's use what you now know about
The Dread and stride models by applying
them to Sam Scoops notably the company
gathers personal information and
consumer insights derived from user
behaviors using the stride model you
identify a major threat information
disclosure via unauthorized access to
the customer database to evaluate this
threat you use the dread model damage is
assigned a rating of nine due to high
high potential Financial loss and
reputation damage reproducibility scores
six for moderate effort needed to
exploit database
vulnerabilities exploitability is rated
as seven because the attack will only
require moderate technical skill what
about affected users this one scores a
10 because all customers private data
could be exposed and
lastly discoverability is ranked five
because the database vulnerability may
not be immediately evident to attackers
finally you add up the scores and divide
it by five in this case that would give
you a score of
7.4 this high score means the threat of
unauthorized access is
severe merging stride and Dread converts
abstract threats into actionable
insights allowing the company to Prior
PR ize robust defense
strategies but the culmination of
analysis isn't the final note it's the
Prelude to
action armed with insights organizations
embark on a journey of mitigation
orchestrating strategies to fortify
their defenses and deter potential
attackers mitigation entails
multifaceted efforts which you will
learn about later in this lesson the
best cyber security analysts know that
weighing the impact and probability of
threats is not just a necessity but a
mission of utmost
importance it's likely that the more you
use the stride and Dread models the
better you will get at judging the
severity of threats in this video you
started sharpening this skill by
learning how to rank threats in terms of
the five dimensions of dread damage
reprodu abbility exploitability
affected users and discoverability you
also covered how to use the stride and
Dread models in conjunction to perfect
the second step of threat modeling
determining and ranking
threats previously you learned about the
concept of threat modeling and its
steps you now know that it is not merely
a theoretical exercise but a crucial
component in any cyber security
framework threat modeling allows
organizations to anticipate and address
potential security threats before they
manifest rather than reacting to them
post
incident by identifying potential
threats organizations can prioritize
their security efforts focusing on the
most critical vulnerabilities first
building on your foundational
understanding of threat modeling this
video covers its advantages highlighting
how it empowers organizations to enhance
their security posture and make informed
decisions
proactively so let's Jump Right In and
uncover what benefits it offers the
First Advantage is threat modeling's
ability to reduce the attack surface of
a system or
application attack surface refers to all
potential points of Entry that a
malicious actor could exploit to
compromise a system threat modeling
helps you to identify and analyze these
entry points allowing you to take
proactive measures to close them off by
pinpointing vulnerabilities and weak
points early in the development process
organizations can Implement security
controls to mitigate risks
effectively this strengthens the overall
security posture and saves resources and
time that would otherwise be spent on
dealing with security breach
es now let's talk about how threat
modeling AIDS in prioritizing mitigation
efforts and determining budget
allocation in today's Dynamic threat
landscape making the most of limited
resources is essential understanding
potential risks and their impacts
enables organizations to allocate
resources to address vulnerabilities
with the highest potential to cause
damage as a result security teams can
optimize their efforts and budget to
effectively Target the most critical
threats achieving a better return on
investment or
Roi in terms of security
outcomes threat modeling not only helps
with budgeting it can also reduce
long-term costs by catching potential
vulnerabilities early on organizations
can avoid the higher costs associated
with fixing issues after an application
is deployed or in responding to a
security breach if a breach does occur
having a thorough threat model can Aid
incident response teams in quickly
identifying and addressing the source of
the
breach another significant advantage of
threat modeling is its ability to
identify and eliminate single points of
failure a single point of failure or
spof refers to a component in a system
that if compromised could bring the
entire system down it's like a city's
main bridge if it closes all traffic
stops causing congestion in digital
terms if multiple servers rely on one
network switch and it fails all
connected servers get cut off disrupting
Services by mapping out the different
components and interactions within a
system threat modeling helps identify
such critical points this information
empowers organizations to implement
redundancy and failover mechanisms
ensuring that if one component fails
others can take its place to maintain
system functionality and the proactive
approach to system resilience minimizes
downtime and enhances overall
reliability moving on let's discuss how
threat modeling facilitates the
alignment of security with business
goals
in any organization security should not
be a standalone objective instead it
should be integrated with the broader
business
objectives threat modeling helps bridge
the gap between technical security
considerations and business
requirements organizations can make
informed decisions on risk acceptance
risk transfer and risk mitigation by
identifying potential threats and vulner
durabilities that could impact the
achievement of business goals this
alignment ensures that security efforts
are effective and in line with the
organization's strategic
Direction next is the issue of
compliance and regulations compliance
with industry regulations and standards
is crucial for many businesses
especially those dealing with sensitive
data threat modeling offers substantial
benefits in meeting compliance
requirements by identifying and
addressing security risks early in the
development life cycle organizations can
demonstrate a proactive commitment to
security and Regulatory Compliance this
not only helps avoid potential fines or
legal
complications but also builds trust with
customers and partners who value data
protection and security
measures another benefit of threat
modeling is that it serves as a common
language anguage that connects
developers Security Professionals and
other
stakeholders communication and
collaboration between different teams
within an organization are vital for
effective security implementation
through threat modeling everyone gains a
shared understanding of the potential
risks and security measures required
this shared understanding streamlines
communication Fosters collaboration and
ultimately leads to more secure and
robust systems lastly by regularly
revisiting and updating threat models
organizations can adapt to the evolving
threat landscape ensuring their defenses
remain robust and relevant in conclusion
while you already grasp the steps
involved in threat modeling it's equally
important to recognize the wide array of
benefits it brings to the table threat
modeling is an essential tool in an
organization's cyber security Arsenal
from reducing attack surfaces and
prioritizing mitigation efforts and
budgeting to identifying and eliminating
single points of failure its ability to
align security with business goals
Support Compliance efforts and enhance
communication further solidifies its
value continuous Improvement through
threat modeling fortifies an
organizations defense mechanisms and
fosters a culture of proactive security
and strategic alignment Paving the way
for sustainable success in a digitally
dependent
landscape in today's world applications
are seamlessly integrated into people's
daily lives however as their complexity
grows so do the potential threats and
vulnerabilities that may compromise
digital security this video addresses a
topic of utmost importance the Assurance
of application security using the Sans
approach Sans stands for CIS admin audit
network security and it's a widely
recognized organization in the field of
cyber security the Sans Institute
provides extensive training
certifications and resources to
Professionals in the information
security industry there are approach
encompasses a holistic view of security
covering system administration Network
management security Audits and more in
this video you will investigate the
sans's approach how it aids in
identifying and exploring threats
establishing an application security
Paradigm and the rationale behind
incorporating security features
furthermore you will be introduced to
pivotal application security Frameworks
such such as pasta which stands for
process for attack simulation and threat
analysis CVSs the common vulnerability
scoring system PNG the process for
National Security risk management and
vast which stands for visual agile and
simple threat modeling each of these
plays a pivotal role in fortifying
application security
without further Ado let's begin the
exploration first what exactly is the
sans's approach well it's a
comprehensive framework to identify
assess and mitigate security threats and
vulnerabilities within software
applications safeguarding an application
requires meticulous identification and
investigation of potential threats and
vulnerabilities this undertaking
involves a methodical dis section of the
application's architecture design and
code to unveil the chinks in its digital
armor and this is where the sans's
approach a systematic and comprehensive
framework for threat identification and
exploration
shines it orchestrates a multifaceted
application analysis dissecting it at
both the software and Hardware level
building on this meticulous analysis it
becomes evident how crucial the right
defensive strategies are in cyber
security here the importance of security
features cannot be overstated when
vulnerabilities rear their heads within
an application it's essential that
security measures are not only adopted
but that their implementation is
substantiated by sound reasoning the
Sand's approach serves as a compass in
this regard ensuring that the chosen
security features are effective and
seamlessly aligned with the threats and
the risks that have been Unearthed the
repository of effective security
measures is diverse ranging from
meticulous code reviews and incisive
penetration testing to robust encryption
protocols and well-defined access
controls through careful validation of
these features organizations optimize
the allocation of resources and the
prioritization of their security efforts
with a solid grasp of the s's approach
as a Cornerstone of security you're now
ready to explore application security
Frameworks by understanding the
foundational concepts of Frameworks like
pasta CVSs PNG and vast you'll be well
equipped to delve into their details in
upcoming videos the first framework
pasta or process for attack simulation
and threat analysis is a sentinel of
risk Centric threat modeling methodology
it lays out a structured blueprint for
identifying latent threats a rigorous
dissection of their potential impact and
a prudent determination of
countermeasures embracing pasta empowers
organizations to understand their unique
threat terrain enabling them to make
informed decisions concerning security
measures next is
CVSs the common vulnerability scoring
system a standardized tool set used to
gauge the severity of security
vulnerabilities this system assigns
scores to vulnerabilities based on their
potential impact and exploitability it
equips security teams with the insight
to prioritize their patching Endeavors
thus allocating resources becomes a
measured and targeted process aligning
with how critical each vulnerability is
there is also PNG or the process for
National Security risk management it is
not to be confused with the portable
Network Graphics image format acronym
PNG is a comprehensive apparatus for
risk assessment it surveys the technical
operational and managerial facets of
security delivering a panoramic
representation of an application's
security risk profile through PNG
organizations can unravel potential
vulnerabilities across the entire life
cycle of an application armed with this
understanding they can develop
strategies to mitigate these risks last
is vast or visual agile and simple
threat modeling a modern and accessible
threat modeling
framework vast emphasizes collaboration
visualization and agility transcending
the confines of technicality and
rendering threat identification and
countermeasure design accessible to both
Technical and non-technical stakeholders
in summary applying security is
imperative in today's digital realm the
sans's approach involves comprehensive
cyber security training and research
providing resources to enhance Global
Security awareness it stands steadfast
as a Cornerstone scaffolding efforts to
identify investigate and verify security
measures that protect applications from
lurking threats and
vulnerabilities the application security
Frameworks pasta CVSs PNG and vast
complement this approach collectively
these tools boost the application
security Arsenal in this video You're
diving into the world of threat analysis
and attack hack simulation by focusing
on the robust pasta
framework understanding this seven-step
process can significantly enhance your
ability to identify and prioritize
potential threats and
vulnerabilities so let's get started so
far you've explored the benefits of
threat modeling and you now know how it
aids in identifying potential risks and
vulnerabilities as technology advances
so do the techniques of malicious actors
seeking to exploit
vulnerabilities without a comprehensive
understanding of potential threats
organizations are left vulnerable to
cyber attacks resulting in data breaches
Financial losses and reputational damage
the comprehensive Pastor framework
brings threat modeling to a new level to
address these issues the pasta framework
which stands for process for attack
simulation and threat analysis is a
methodical approach that guides security
teams through a comprehensive analysis
let's break down these steps one by one
the initial step involves outlining the
business compliance and security
objectives and performing a preliminary
business impact analysis or
Bia the input documents include business
requirement documents and information
security
policies the output of this stage
includes the definition of application
security and compliance requirements and
a Bia report step two identifies what
needs protection including Technologies
dependencies and components for example
defining technical scope and identifying
software and network
dependencies this identification is done
using highlevel design docu doents and
network diagrams and it yields outputs
such as a highlevel view of application
architecture and a list of protocols and
data types now that you have the first
two steps well in hand let's move on to
the next one step three is application
decomposition this step involves
identifying users and actors this is
done to understand component
interactions implicit Trust models and
data flow using inputs like architecture
diagrams and use
cases the outputs include data flow
diagrams and a list of assets with their
trust levels this brings us to step four
threat analysis here the impact of
threats on the application is assessed
this assessment inails inputs like
threat agents and security incident
reports and it involves analyzing
scenarios incidents and application and
system logs outputs include attack
scenario reports and a list of threat
agents and
vectors The Next Step Builds on the
threat analysis by analyzing
vulnerabilities step five correlates
vulnerabilities with assets and manages
risks by integrating various tools and
practices it utilizes inputs like threat
trees and attack
scenarios these are used to map threats
to vulnerabilities and score
vulnerabilities this leads to outputs
like vulnerability mapping and
enumeration the second last step is
about validating vulnerabilities by
creating attack trees and mapping
vulnerabilities to
nodes inputs like application technical
scope and attack libraries are used this
is to conduct activities like
identifying attack surfaces and deriving
attack trees the resulting outputs are
attack surface identification and a list
of attack paths and that brings us to
the final step risk and impact
analysis it encompasses reducing risks
by building counter measures based on
insights from the previous steps inputs
like preliminary Bia and Technical scope
lead to activ activities such as
assessing business impact and
identifying security control gaps the
outputs of this stage include an
application risk profile and a list of
mitigation
strategies now let's discuss some of the
benefits the past of framework brings to
the table first and foremost the
methodology encourages a holistic
understanding of the system by breaking
it down into its individual components
data flow and potential areas of
vulnerability while many other
methodologies May focus narrowly on
specific aspects of security pasta
offers a holistic view taking into
account the entire ecosystem in which an
application or system
operates second pasta encourages
collaboration among various departments
within an organization the framework
ensures a well-rounded understanding of
potential risks by involving
stakeholders from it development and
business units third pasta promotes a
proactive approach to cyber security
organizations can anticipate threats and
vulnerabilities rather than waiting for
an attack allowing for timely
mitigation fourth pass the AIDS in
resource
allocation limited resources can be
directed towards addressing the most
critical threats maximizing the
effectiveness of the organization's
cyber security
efforts finally pasta provides a
structured methodology for documenting
the threat analysis process this
documentation is a valuable resource for
future reference and maintaining a
consistent threat analysis approach in
conclusion the pasta framework Fosters
holistic understanding collaboration
practice AC ity resource allocation and
a structured methodology so how can the
pasta framework be executed practically
you'd start by assembling a cross
functional team that brings together
individuals from different departments
this diversity of perspectives is
critical to a comprehensive threat
analysis next you'd follow each step of
the pasta framework
meticulously the team should collaborate
brainstorm and analyze threats and
vulnerabilities to ensure a thorough
evaluation they should also utilize
tools and technologies that Aid in the
threat analysis process there are
various software Solutions available
that can streamline data collection
analysis and risk ranking and remember
threat Landscapes evolve so it's crucial
to perform regular reviews and updates
of threat an analysis to stay ahead of
emerging risks by following the seven
steps of the pasta framework security
teams not only enhance their
organization's cyber security posture
they also contribute to a safer Digital
World while many other methodologies May
focus narrowly on specific aspects of
security pasta offers a holistic view
taking into account the entire ecosystem
in which an application or system
operates earlier you were introduced to
the common vulnerability scoring system
or
CVSs now it's time to explore it in some
more depth this video covers its
significance components scoring process
real world
applications challenges and the pivotal
role it plays in the world of cyber
security let's start by delving into the
essence of CVSs and its
Origins the common vulnerability scoring
system is a standardized threat scoring
framework created to assess known
computer systems and software
vulnerabilities this robust framework
was developed and is continually
maintained by two authoritative bodies
the National Institute of Standards and
technology or
n and the Forum of instant response and
security teams or first the difference
between CVSs and the previously
discussed pasta framework is that pasta
is used for threat modeling and risk
assessment CVSs on the other hand is
used to assess the severity of specific
vulnerabilities in software or systems
it provides a numerical score to help
organizations prioritize and understand
the impact of a particular vulnerability
to better understand CVSs let's dive
into its three primary
components first are the base metrics
which lie at the core of
CVSs these metrics provide a
comprehensive view of a vulnerability
inherent
characteristics they include details
like the attack Vector attack complexity
privileges required and the potential
impact on confidentiality integrity and
availability second are temporal metrics
which offer insights into how a
vulnerability may change over time for
example the availability of exploits and
the prevalence of the vulnerability in
the wild this category evaluates Dynamic
factors such as exploit code maturity
remediation level and Report
confidence last are environmental
metrics which place vulnerabilities
Within in a specific context they
consider environmental aspects specific
to an organization's environment such as
the assets that are exposed by the
vulnerability and the organization's
security
posture environmental metrics measure
collateral damage potential Target
distribution exploitation difficulty and
impact
modifiers you may ask how these metrics
are scored and the answer is the CVSs
version 3.1 calculator it is a valuable
tool for Security Professionals and
anyone who wants to learn more about the
severity of computer vulnerabilities the
calculator determines three numerical
value scores a base temporal and
environmental one derived from the
metrics that were just discussed to
calculate a CVSs score you must first
select the appropriate base score
metrics these metrics are attack vector
or AV a metric that describes how an
attacker can exploit the
vulnerability second is attack
complexity or AC which describes how
difficult it is for an attacker to
exploit the
vulnerability third is privileges
required or PR this metric describes the
Privileges that an attacker needs to
exploit the
vulnerability fourth is user interaction
or UI which describes whether an
attacker needs user interaction to
exploit the
vulnerability fifth is scope or s a
metric that describes the impact of the
vulnerability on the confidentiality
integrity and availability of data and
systems sixth is confidentiality impact
or C this metric describes the impact of
the vulnerability
on the confidentiality of data seventh
is integrity impact or I a metric that
describes the vulnerability's impact on
data integrity and last is availability
impact or a this metric describes the
impact of the vulnerability on the
availability of data and
systems once you have selected the base
score metrics the calculator will
automatically calculate the base score
you can then choose whether you also
want to select and calculate the
temporal score and environmental score
metrics to refine the CVSs score you
will learn more about these in the CVSs
cheat sheet reading that follows now
let's explore examples of how to use
CVSs practically in Industry
organizations rely on CVSs to prioritize
their response to
vulnerabilities by focusing on
vulnerabilities with higher scores they
can allocate resources more efficiently
and tackle the most critical issues
first CVSs is also a Cornerstone for
risk assessment it empowers
organizations to evaluate the potential
impact of a vulnerability on their
specific environment and make informed
decisions regarding risk acceptance
mitigation or transfer and system
administrators rely on CVSs score
to determine the urgency of applying
patches this AIDS in promptly addressing
vulnerabilities and enhancing the
overall security posture however CVSs
does present its own set of
challenges one notable challenge is
subjectivity different assessors May
interpret the metrics differently
leading to variations and scores to
mitigate this organizations must
establish standardized assessment
processes another challenge is the lack
of context while environmental metrics
help contextualize vulnerabilities they
may not capture every unique factor in
an organization's
environment additional context may be
needed for a comprehensive
assessment and lastly there are zerod
day
vulnerabilities zero day vulnerabilities
are un disclosed software or Hardware
weaknesses unknown to developers lacking
official patches the term zero day
signifies zero days of protection
between Discovery and Patch
release assessing them using the common
vulnerability scoring system is
challenging due to limited information
absence of official fixes their Dynamic
nature and limited context to summarize
CVSs is a fundamental tool in the cyber
security realm it offers a structured
and standardized approach to evaluate
the severity of known
vulnerabilities organizations can better
prioritize assess and manage their
security efforts by understanding its
components and scoring process
ultimately fortifying their defenses
against cyber
threats in the rapidly evolving
landscape of cyber security vast or
visual agile and simple threat
management has emerged as a cuttingedge
methodology it is gaining momentum
across large and small organizations and
aims to revolutionize how organizations
identify assess and respond to cyber
threats in this comprehensive video you
will delve deeper into vast exploring
its fundamental principles its wide
array of benefits and practical real
world examples to illustrate its
Effectiveness vasts Foundation rests
upon three fundamental principles that
collectively enhance cyber
security these are visualizing threats
agile response to threats and simplified
management let's examine these and their
benefits first the vast methodology
introduces a visual Dimension to cyber
security
through userfriendly dashboards and
graphical representations it can
simplify the often daunting task of
threat identification the benefit of
this visual approach is that it
facilitates swifter detection and
incident response providing a real-time
view of network and system
vulnerabilities using the vast approach
and appropriate tools like Microsoft
Sentinel to implement it enables
organizations to expedite identifying
and responding to threats ultimately
this helps mitigate potential damage as
an example this Microsoft Sentinel
dashboard screenshot shows a world map
indicating security events across
regions in the past week the dashboard
also displays metrics like total events
alerts and incidents it provides an at a
glance view of an organization's
security status aiding in trend tracking
and control assessment second the ever
evolving nature of cyber threats demands
agility in response following the vast
methodology empowers security teams to
adapt their strategies and tactics
swiftly to combat emerging threats by
doing so organizations can stay one step
ahead of adversaries minimizing
potential damage for example this is a
screenshot of the incident page of the
the Microsoft Sentinel portal it
highlights initial access incident
involving one user and it has been
assigned a high severity level the vast
approach facilitated by tools like
Microsoft Sentinel helps organizations
bolster their overall security posture
it aids in identifying and remedying
vulnerabilities ensuring a proactive
approach to cyber
security third
a vast approach simplifies management by
promoting the automation of routine
tasks and a centralized view of security
data the benefit of this simplified
management is streamlined operations
that free security teams to concentrate
on more strategic and Mission critical
tasks the vast approach can deliver cost
savings by enhancing operational
efficiency again Microsoft sent
can Aid in these tasks this is a
screenshot of the automation page of the
Microsoft Sentinel portal it shows
enabled playbooks and rules as well as
other features for managing and
monitoring security tasks these are the
fundamental principles and some of the
benefits of vast but what about its
implementation as you might have been
able to tell from preceding examples one
way to implement it is by deploying
Microsoft
Sentinel if you've gone through the
earlier courses in this program you
should already be familiar with
Microsoft Sentinel it's an ideal partner
for the vast methodology because it
excels at collecting and analyzing the
data the vast approach relies on to
identify cyber threats together they
form a powerful team that ensures safety
in the digital world let's examine some
example scenarios demonstrating how vast
implementation can enhance cyber
security particularly when paired with
Microsoft
Sentinel imagine an organization deploys
Microsoft Sentinel to monitor Network
traffic one evening The Sentinel
dashboard detects an unusual spike in
traffic during non- business hours the
security team promptly investigates and
identifies a malicious actor attempting
unauthorized AC access in the context of
Microsoft Sentinel the correct response
would involve swiftly blocking the
attackers IP address Microsoft Sentinel
can also assist in identifying any other
potential compromised systems this rapid
and precise response prevents further
intrusion and damage showcasing
Microsoft Sentinels efficiency in real
world
situations another example is an
organization that integrates its patch
management system with Microsoft
Sentinel for automated patch
management this integration enables
Microsoft Sentinel to continuously
monitor for vulnerabilities and promptly
alert for patches when they are
available the benefit of this proactive
approach is that it minimizes the window
of opportunity for attackers to exploit
vulnerabilities it also reduces the
workload on the security team ensuring
that critical syst systems remain
upto-date and secure let's move on to
another
scenario during a workday Microsoft
Sentinel detects unusual file activity
on several employee computers these
files exhibit characteristics of
malware the appropriate response using
Microsoft Sentinel is to quarantine the
suspicious files on affected devices
immediately and Trigger alerts to the
security team the team swiftly
investigate isolate the compromised
devices and commence malware removal
thereby adhering to Microsoft Sentinels
agile supervision these examples
demonstrate that cyber security teams
that follow the vast approach when using
tools like Microsoft Sentinel can handle
threats more efficiently and effectively
in conclusion vast stands as a powerful
and dynamic cyber security methodology
it equips organizations with the tools
needed to enhance their security posture
and reduce the risk of cyber
attacks vast is especially well suited
for organizations seeking to fortify
their threat detection and response
capabilities optimize resource
allocation and Achieve cost efficiency
in cyber security operations as the
digital landscape continues to evolve
vast provides a critical iCal advantage
in the ongoing battle against cyber
threats ensuring organizations remain
resilient and secure in the face of
everchanging
challenges to perform any job properly
you need the right tools the Microsoft
threat modeling tool 2018 is a pivotal
resource in threat
modeling cyber Security Professionals
use it to safeguard software and systems
by pinpointing and mitigating potential
security threats in this video you'll
learn how to use the Microsoft threat
modeling tool 2018 to develop robust
threat models for your software and
systems this tool is a core element of
the Microsoft security development life
cycle or
sdl you will also learn more about the
sdl process Microsoft unveiled the
Microsoft threat modeling tool in
September
2018 making it widely available as a
free download you can find a link to
download it in the additional resources
at the end of this lesson before you
explore the features of this tool it's
essential to understand the security
development life cycle or stdl process
which is crucial for Effective threat
modeling to commence the sdl process you
start by crafting a comprehensive of
diagram or representation of your
software or system this diagram serves
as the Cornerstone for identifying
potential security threats think of it
as creating a blueprint before
constructing a building a clear plan is
necessary to guarantee structural
Integrity in threat modeling this
diagram helps you gain insights into the
various components and their
interactions in the next phase the
identify phase your objective is
pinpointing potential security threats
and
vulnerabilities this entails thoroughly
analyzing the previously created diagram
to identify areas where security risks
May
emerge you search for weak points in
your system's design implementation or
architecture this step is pivotal as it
provides an understanding of where
vulnerabilities might exist our Med with
the knowledge of identified threats the
third phase is the mitigation phase it
involves devising strategies and
implementing security controls to
counter these
threats this step is indispensable for
reducing the risks associated with
potential
vulnerabilities continuing our building
analogy once you identify weak points
you'd install reinforced steel doors
security cameras and alarm arms
similarly in threat modeling you'll
Implement security measures to mitigate
identified risks the validation phase
assesses the effectiveness of the
security measures and controls that have
been implemented this often entails
testing and verification to ensure that
the security of the software or system
meets the desired
standards if we revisit our building
example you will simulate Breakin
attempts to ensure that your security
measures can withstand real world
attacks in threat modeling validation
assures your security controls are
robust and effective now that you grasp
the four phases of sdl let's unpack how
to use the Microsoft threat modeling
tool when you launch the tool you'll
find a starter page with several options
first is the feedback suggestions and
issues button this button provides
access to the msdn Forum dedicated to
the security development life cycle here
you can connect with other users gain
valuable insights and access
recommendations from the community next
is the create a model option this
feature opens a blank canvas where you
can initiate the creation of your threat
model on the lower section of the page
you will find the template selection
interface here you have the flexibility
to choose from various templates based
on your Project's requirements
streamlining the threat modeling
process selecting the appropriate
template that aligns with your specific
model is
crucial the tool also provides the
option to view recently open models a
list of the models you saved earlier
displays providing a convenient way to
retrieve your most recent files next
let's explore the key features of this
tool starting with how to build a model
after selecting create a model from the
main page it's time to start building it
the threat modeling tool enables users
to Define trust boundaries and
illustrate where different entities have
control like drawing a data flow
diagram now let's move on to analyzing
threats the threat modeling tool helps
you identify potential vulnerabilities
systematically it categorizes threats
using the stride model helping you
understand the diverse range of
vulnerabilities your software May face
each threat description is accompanied
by supplementary information that
explains the issues and provides
recommendations for improving security
you can also categorize threats based on
their status such as not applicable not
started needs investigation and
mitigation at there are many benefits to
the threat modeling tool It empowers
software Architects to identify and
address potential security issues early
in the development process when they are
more manageable and coste effective to
resolve consequently it significantly
reduces the overall development
costs designed with both Security
Experts and non-experts in mind this
tool simplifies threat model for
developers by offering clear guidance on
creating and analyzing threat models the
tool enables anyone to communicate about
the security design of their systems
analyze those designs for potential
security issues using appr proven
methodology and suggest and manage
mitigations for security issues key
capabilities and Innovations of the tool
include automation functionalities which
provide guidance and feed feedback
during model creation it also lists
stride per element guiding the analysis
of threats and their
mitigations next it includes reporting
functionalities facilitating security
activities and testing during the
verification phase it also offers a
unique methodology enhancing users
ability to visualize and comprehend
threats what's more the tool is
developer centered it's focused on
software activities familiar to all
developers and Architects and lastly its
focus is on design analysis prioritizing
design analysis is a crucial aspect of
threat modeling within the sdl
approach in conclusion the Microsoft
threat modeling tool in combination with
the sdl approach offers a structured and
effective way to to create threat models
and enhance the security of software
systems by following the steps outlined
in this video software development teams
can build more resilient and secure
applications ultimately reducing the
risk of security breaches and
vulnerabilities can you recall the four
phases of the security development life
cycle or sdl process you covered earlier
they are diagram creation
identifying mitigating ating and
validation sdl is tailored explicitly
for fortifying Azure virtual networks in
this video you'll learn about the
advanced application of the sdl process
you'll explore how each phase equips you
to secure virtual Network environments
within azure's Dynamic Cloud
infrastructure let's get started in the
initial phase of crafting your Azure
virtual Network diagram it's essential
to include these key components first is
subnets they are the foundation for
traffic isolation because they divide
the network into manageable segments
next is virtual machines or VMS VMS are
core computational units hosting various
applications and services and require
robust
security you should also include network
security groups or nsgs in your diagram
nsgs are virtual firewalls that
meticulously control inbound and
outbound traffic enforcing security
policies you should also include
application security groups or asgs asgs
are logically grouped VMS and they apply
consistent security rules for
streamlined policy management Azure
firewall is another crucial diagram
component it's a cloud-based firewall
service with Advanced security features
including application and network level
filtering and threat
intelligence and lastly you should add
virtual Network gateways these enable
secure connectivity Bridging the virtual
network with on premises and internet
networks extending the protective reach
of your network following the creation
of your Azure architecture diagram the
subsequent phase involves the
identification of potential security
threats and
vulnerabilities this involves exploring
the following areas of concern first is
unauthorized access the aim here is to
detect attempts by hostile actors to
gain unauthorized access to Azure
resources through various vectors
including vulnerability exploitation and
credential theft next is data
exfiltration here the focus falls on
vulnerabilities that can cause the
unauthorized extraction of sensitive
data from Azure resources you should
also explore
misconfigurations misconfigured Azure
resources like nsgs can inadvertently
allow unauthorized traffic into virtual
network
resources last you should explore any
Azure virtual Network specific threats
where adversaries May Target your
network gateways in pursuit of unof
authorized access or network
connectivity
disruption now that you've identified
potential threats it's imperative to put
the concept of never trust always verify
into practice by implementing critical
Azure virtual network security controls
this includes Azure role-based access
control or rback rback enables granular
Access Control allowing you to precisely
Define user access to Azure
resources the principle of least
privilege holds this means minimizing
permissions to reduce the attack surface
essentially you should create custom
roles tailor to your organization's
needs and auditing and monitoring form
an important part of arback in Azure
this is done with detailed audit logs
another mitigation strategy is creating
network security groups or nsgs nsgs are
all about traffic filtering they control
traffic based on Source destination and
protocols also use application security
groups or asgs for precise control nsgs
facilitate logging and monitoring
traffic for suspicious
activity next is azure firewall with
threat detection intrusion prevention
and content filtering as your firewall
offers comprehensive security and fqdn
filtering controls outbound traffic
based on domain names integration is
also a crucial feature of azure firewall
it works seamlessly with Azure Monitor
and Microsoft
Sentinel furthermore Azure firewall
ensures the management of multiple
firewall instances centrally let's move
on to mitigation via virtual ual Network
gateways first virtual Network gateways
secure connectivity they Bridge the
Azure network with on premises and the
internet virtual Network gateways also
ensure secure data transfer through vpns
and express route furthermore virtual
Network gateways offer flexible
connections to multiple locations lastly
you can use Azure monitor for
performance and health tracking next
let's explore monitoring components as
mitigation Solutions you can start with
Microsoft Sentinel which provides
Advanced threat detection and
analytics next is Defender for cloud a
tool for continuous security
monitoring another tool is Defender for
endpoint which offers endpoint
protection against Advanced threats and
lastly Azure monitor monitors Azure
resources including virtual networks and
finally there are data availability and
Recovery mitigation solutions for
instance Azure backup offers backup as a
service a scalable managed backup
solution data redundancy to secure
redundant storage Geo redundancy
involving secondary region replication
for data
availability as your backup also offers
granular backup policies
including customizable schedules and
retention
policies lastly application aware
backups provides support for consistent
backups by implementing these controls
and best practices you can effectively
mitigate threats for comprehensive
protection remember to follow General
Security practices like robust password
policies multiactor authentication and
regular policy updates the Final Phase
of sdl is about validating the
effectiveness of the mitigation
strategies implemented in phase three
this comprises the following key
approaches first is security control
testing simulated attacks or
vulnerability assessments are the
Cornerstone for assessing the resiliency
of your Azure network security controls
next is azure virtual Network log
monitoring Vigilant monitoring of
network logs is an indispensable means
of detecting and thwarting suspicious
activities Azure offers Advanced log
analysis techniques and tools to
heighten your awareness and response
capabilities and last but not least is
regular security policy reviews
effective Azure security policies hinge
on consistent and meticulous reviews
Azure offers guidance for a robust
review process to ensure your security
posture stays relevant and effective in
conclusion the steps outlined in this
video form the basis of an impregnable
sdl process one that fortifies your
Azure virtual networks and secures your
resources against the tide of evolving
threats in this video you learned that
the stdl process offers an
all-encompassing methodical approach to
constructing and upholding as secure as
your
environment the process of solving
problems starts at a place of curiosity
and
exploration any scientist or engineer
will tell you that asking questions is
an effective way to find problems and
suitable Solutions in a system in this
video you will explore threat modeling
from another angle using four basic
questions you can direct the threat
modeling process to effectively identify
assess and mitigate threats to your
organization challenging a threat model
team with these questions can guide
critical thinking and innovative
solutions let's start with the first
question which is what is the team
working on this initial question
involves precisely defining the scope of
your
analysis it is critical to understand
what aspects of your organization need
protection the scope can range from a
narrow Focus such as a single software
application to a broader perspective
encompassing an entire organizational
ecosystem question one is also about
boundaries identifying the scope sets
the boundaries for your threat modeling
exercise it guides you in determining
which assets processes and data are
within the scope of your analysis
defining these boundaries is crucial to
avoid wasting resources on unrelated or
less critical
elements the second question is what can
go wrong once the scope is established
the next step is identifying potential
threats these threats can take various
forms including software vulnerabilities
human errors or malicious attacks and
they all have the potential to disrupt
or compromise your system's
Integrity there are various methods of
threat
identification one method to identify
threats is through brainstorming
sessions
encouraging creative thinking and
considering all possible
scenarios on the other hand structured
methods like stride kill chains and
attack trees offer a systematic way to
identify threats let's briefly expand on
each The Stride framework categorizes
threats into six main categories
spoofing tampering
repudiation information disclosure
denial of service an elevation of
privilege it helps in systematically
considering different types of
threats next are kill chains which help
map out potential attack scenarios
considering the steps an attacker might
take to compromise your
system attack trees visually represent
potential threats illustrating how they
could exploit vulnerabilities in your
system now let's move on to the third
question what is the team going to do
about it after identifying potential
threats the next step is to develop
strategies to counter them this involves
implementing counter measures or
adopting risk management approaches to
mitigate the risks counter measures can
Encompass technical controls such as
firewalls and intrusion detection
systems it can also involve process
improvements like code reviews and
access control
policies moreover policy Chang changes
such as data handling procedures also
serve as counter measures the most
suitable countermeasure depends on the
nature of the threat let's focus on four
riskmanagement approaches these include
mitigation or taking actions to reduce
the likelihood or impact of a threat and
acceptance is acknowledging the risk and
deciding not to take any specific action
to mitigate it this is often the
approach when the the cost of mitigation
outweighs the potential
impact next is transfer which shifts the
risk to a third party such as through
insurance or
Outsourcing the last approach to risk
management is
elimination which is removing the threat
or vulnerability from the system
altogether finally the fourth question
is did the team do a good job this final
question involves evaluating the
effectiveness of your threat modeling
efforts determining whether the measures
you've put in place align with your
organization's risk tolerance and
security objectives is crucial regularly
assessing and reassessing your threat
modeling and security measures are
essential for continuous Improvement
this ensures that your security measures
remain effective and adaptable to
evolving threats as the landscape
constantly
changes period itic audits penetration
testing and incident response exercises
can help this
assessment in this video you've explored
threat modeling from the Viewpoint of
four essential questions one what are
the team working on two what can go
wrong three what are they going to do
about it and four did the team do a good
job to summarize the four question
framework is a unique approach to threat
modeling by finding the answers to these
four basic questions you can identify
and Implement suitable solutions to
protect your organization's systems and
data from potential threats well done
you've made it to the end of the first
module in the course let's take a moment
to review what you've learned about
threat modeling before you take the quiz
in the first part of the module you were
introduced to the course reflected on
what what you hope to learn and how to
be successful in the course and
familiarized yourself with the course
syllabus in the next part of the module
you were introduced to threat modeling a
process for identifying and addressing
security threats to your applications
you explored the three steps of threat
modeling which are decomposing the
application determining and ranking
threats and determining counter measures
and mitigation in the following video
decompose the application you learned
more about step one of threat modeling
for example you learned that you
shouldn't only consider the components
of an application you must also consider
unpacking its purpose architecture
security controls vulnerabilities
external dependencies entry and exit
points assets and Trust
levels following this you've further
explored step two of threat modeling
determine Mining and ranking threats
specifically you learned about the
stride model which can help identify and
rank potential threats remember stride
stands for spoofing tampering
repudiation information disclosure
denial of service and elevation of
privilege the model provides a
structured methodology to help you
analyze threats next you learned about
how you can use the dread model in
conjunct f with stride in step two of
threat modeling The Dread model provides
a way to assign numerical values to two
essential threat ranking factors impact
and probability dread stands for five
evaluative Dimensions damage
reproducibility exploitability affected
users and discoverability when applying
the dread model you assess each
dimension on a scale from 1 to 10 with
higher scores indicating greater risk
the final step of threat modeling is
determining counter measures and
mitigation strategies these strategies
translate insights into action to fight
threats effectively as part of learning
about this step you explored the
application security framework or ASF
and stride threats and their counter
measures this part of the course also
included some practical application of
what you learned learned for example you
examined the critical role of threat
modeling in ensuring a secure and
reliable environment for a social media
platform and finally in the exercise you
had to create a threat model for a web
application that's impressive continuing
your journey of learning about threat
modeling you explored its advantages
like how it reduces the attack surface
of a system and how it supports
adherence to compliance requirements
ments and Industry regulations and
standards in this part of the course you
learned about the Sans approach a
comprehensive framework to identify
assess and mitigate security threats and
vulnerabilities within software
applications you were also introduced to
other essential security Frameworks like
pasta
CVSs PNG and vast next you learned how
cyber threat modeling is about more more
than just application security but also
the security of entire
systems here you explored realworld
applications of cyber threat modeling
like the Equifax data breach of
2017 you also learned more about the
Frameworks introduced in this part of
the course in particular pasta CVSs and
vast for example pasta or process for
attack simulation and threat an analysis
is a seven-step risk Centric threat
model that helps identify and prioritize
potential threats and
vulnerabilities pasta is very useful
because it provides a structured
methodology for documenting the threat
analysis process this documentation is a
valuable resource for future reference
and maintaining a consistent threat
analysis approach while pasta is used
for threat modeling and risk assessment
CVSs is used to assess the severity of
specific vulnerabilities in software or
systems it provides a numerical score to
help organizations prioritize and
understand the impact of a particular
vulnerability here you also learned
about the CVSs version 3.1 calculator
that automatically calculates the
numerical score based on base temporal
and environmental meth metrics you also
learned more about vast or visual agile
simple threat management a cuttingedge
methodology using tools like Microsoft
Sentinel to implement a vast approach
you can easily assess cyber threats
through userfriendly dashboards and
graphical representations this
simplifies the often daunting task of
threat
identification in this part of the
course you further explored three
Enterprise security methodologies and
how they can strengthen an
organization's security posture these
approaches are PNG security cards and
the stride threat modeling framework as
a practical application of what you
learned in this portion of the course
you evaluated a firewall breach
vulnerability using the CVSs
calculator in the final part of the
module you learned more about how threat
modeling integrates with Azure for
example you learned how to use the
Microsoft threat modeling tool 2018 to
develop robust threat models for
software and systems this tool is a core
element of Microsoft's security
development life cycle or stdl which you
also learned about this life cycle has
four phases which are diagram creation
identification mitigation and validation
you delved into each phase of the sdl
process with technical explanations to
enhance your understanding of its
importance in effective threat modeling
in this part of the course you also
learned about the four question
framework that allows a cyber security
team to find problems and suitable
Solutions in a system these questions
are what is the team working on what can
go wrong what is the team going to do
about it and did the team do a good job
finally you applied what you learned by
creating a threat model for a web
application using the Microsoft threat
modeling tool and that's the end of this
summary if there's anything that you
feel unsure about after watching this
video make sure to revisit the relevant
items before you tackle the quiz good
luck infrastructure provides the
essential services and systems that we
rely on daily however not all
infrastructures are created
some are more susceptible to
vulnerabilities than others susceptible
infrastructure can lead to catastrophic
consequences affecting not just
businesses but society and the
environment at large by understanding
the types vulnerabilities and impact of
susceptible infrastructure you can
better prepare and defend against
potential threats let's start with the
definition of susceptible infrastructure
the term refers to physical structures
or system systems that are vulnerable to
disruptions or failures due to various
factors such as natural disasters cyber
attacks or human error examples of
physical susceptible infrastructure
include a wide range of facilities and
services such as Transportation networks
power plants water supply systems
communication networks and more now
let's move on to the different it
related types of susceptible
infrastructure first there's Cloud
infrastructure while it provides
numerous advantages in terms of
scalability flexibility and cost
Effectiveness it also comes with its own
set of
vulnerabilities Cloud infrastructures
vulnerabilities stem from its shared
resource model which can lead to
potential misconfigurations and
unintended data exposure additionally
its accessibility from anywhere
increases the attack surface making it
susceptible to breaches if not properly
secured second are web browsers which
serve as the primary gateways through
which users access the internet they can
become Prime targets for cyber attacks
due to their widespread use and the
immense amount of data they process
another type of infrastructure is
package
repositories Central repositories where
scripts modules and other software
components are stored and shared
play a pivotal role in software
development however their centralized
nature can make them susceptible to
various security threats last are
communication software tools such as
email clients and messaging apps they
are enticing targets for cyber criminals
because of their widespread use and the
sensitive information they handle these
types of infrastructure are all
susceptible to different vulnerabilities
first
there is serers side request forgery or
ssrf this kind of vulnerability arises
when an attacker can make requests to
the internal resources of a system
intrusions can be accomplished through
spoofing or manipulating URLs that the
applications use to read data supplying
new URLs to allow access when exploited
ssrf can lead to unauthorized access to
data further attacks on internal systems
or even a complete system Takeover in
some cases second is type confusion
vulnerability which stems from A
System's inability to discern or handle
different object types properly it can
lead to memory corruption when an
attacker exploits the system's confusion
potentially leading to unauthorized
system access or data leaks third is
typo squatting a cyber tactic where
malicious actors register domain names
similar to authentic ones in hopes of
trapping users who inadvertently type
the wrong
URL victims May download malware have
their data stolen or be duped into
providing personal or financial
details last are zero day
vulnerabilities which are unknown to
software developers or vendors making
them particularly dangerous as there's
no immediate remedy since a fix our
patch isn't available at the time of
Discovery it gives attackers a window to
exploit the vulnerability freely you
know about the types of infrastructure
and vulnerabilities now it's time to
consider the potential impact of
susceptible infrastructure any security
breach in vital infrastructure can have
massive Financial consequences affected
businesses May face a decline in stock
value loss of consumer confidence legal
liabilities or penalties from regulatory
bodies and the cost of damage
control cyber attacks on infrastructural
services like energy and water can have
immediate environmental
consequences consider a Cyber attack
that incapacitates the cooling systems
of a nuclear power plant the resultant
overheating could lead to radiation
leaks on a social level breaches can
expose personal data this can culminate
in identity theft financial fraud and an
overarching mistrust of digital
platforms for example a major Health
Service provider's data breach might
expose patient records leading not just
to privacy concerns but also to doubts
about adopting digital health records in
the future several measures can be taken
to identify susceptible infrastructure
regular audits can highlight
vulnerabilities and business
risks this proactive approach can help
mitigate potential threats before they
can be exploited setting up
infrastructure monitoring and alerts can
identify potential threats in real time
platforms like Microsoft Azure offer
tools to Monitor and send alerts on
infrastructure components to identify
security threats Azure monitor log
analytics and application insights
provide powerful entend monitoring of
your applications and the components
they rely on regularly update software
and systems can prevent many
vulnerabilities for example zero day
vulnerabilities although initially
unknown become known threats once
identified prompt updates can then
protect the infrastructure and educating
employees and stakeholders on the signs
of vulnerabilities and potential threats
can add an additional layer of Defense
awareness can be the first line of
defense against fishing attempts or
other user targeted attacks tax in
conclusion by identifying
vulnerabilities and implementing
appropriate mitigation strategies you
can minimize the potential risks posed
by susceptible infrastructure to both
society and the
environment given the everchanging
nature of cyber threats Security
Professionals need reliable and
comprehensive tools to keep
organizations safe miter a not
for-profit organization has developed
such a tool called the attack Matrix
this framework is a knowledge base
detailing adversarial behaviors observed
in realworld cyber attacks you can
access the tool in the additional
resources of this lesson in this video
you will learn about the attack matrix's
comprehensive approach to proactive
security and some of its benefits but
first let's clearly Define what the
attack Matrix is attack stands for
adversarial tactics techniques and
common knowledge the framework is
visualized as a matrix which is
essentially a large table illustrating
the relationship between attacker
tactics and techniques in this context
tactics refer to the specific objectives
or goals adversaries aim to achieve
during their cyber operations for
example gaining initial access or
maintaining precis assistance in a
system on the other hand techniques
describe the specific methods or
procedures they use to reach those
objectives for example spear fishing or
exploiting software
vulnerabilities by presenting this
information in an organized manner The
Matrix serves as an essential repository
for cyber Security Professionals
offering a clear picture of the diverse
Strategies employed by cyber attackers
this empowers security teams with
valuable insights enabling them to
predict recognize and counter potential
threats effectively the fundamental
purpose of the miter attack Matrix is to
give Security Professionals a granular
and informed perspective on the diverse
tactics and techniques cyber adversaries
adopt traditional defense strategies
predominantly address po incident
scenarios which is the aftermath of an
attack however the attack Matrix
transcends this limitation by offering a
comprehensive overview that spans both
pre- and post attack phases for instance
there is the pre-attack Matrix a
specific subf framework within attack it
delves deeply into the Preparatory
activities and reconnaissance techniques
that attackers undertake before
launching their offensive these
preliminary actions often elude an
organization's security radar by
highlighting these covert Maneuvers The
Matrix empowers security teams to adopt
a proactive pre- breach stance by
anticipating and preemptively countering
potential threats Additionally the
Matrix isn't Tethered to a single
platform or environment take the
Enterprise Matrix It encompasses data
pertinent to a myriad of platforms
including but not limited to to Windows
Mac OS and Linux this holistic and
cross-platform understanding of the
multifaceted threat landscape can help
strengthen an organization's cyber
security posture the attack Matrix
offers several benefits let's explore
those now first is the comprehensive
knowledge base it offers miter attack is
a globally accessible database that's
founded on realworld observations this
ensures that the data is not just
theoretical but is rooted in actual
events making it an invaluable resource
for security teams
worldwide next is enhanced threat
detection The Matrix categorizes and
describes adversarial behavior in cyber
attacks this AIDS in more accurate
threat detection by enabling security
teams to recognize common patterns and
tactics in cyber breaches third is the
proactive security measures it enables
with the inclusion of the pre-attack
Matrix organizations can identify
potential threats even before they
materialize this shifts the security
stance from reactive to proactive
allowing for improved defenses and
reduced
risks The Matrix also allows for
tailored Security Solutions it includes
customized variations for different
sectors enabling organizations to adopt
Security Solutions specific to their
operational environment for instance
businesses can leverage the industrial
control system or IC matrices to enhance
their security measures the attack
Matrix enables improved incident
response armed with detailed insights
into attacker Behavior incident response
teams can devise more effective Strate
iies to counteract threats this allows
them to limit potential damage and
expedite recovery The Matrix can also
improve mobile security the mobile
matrices within the attack framework
offer insights to bolster an
organization's mobile security securing
mobile devices has become more important
as they have become more integrated into
organizational operations and lastly
continuous updates mean the framework is
regularly updated to include new tactics
and techniques threat actors use
ensuring that it remains relevant the
miter attack Matrix a pioneering
initiative by the not for-profit
organization miter is an indispensable
knowledge base for cyber Security
Professionals globally grounded in real
world observations The Matrix offers a
comprehensive view of adversary
behaviors across various platforms
enabling security teams to shift from
reactive to
proactive its detailed categorization
AIDS in precise threat detection
proactive defense measures tailored
Security Solutions and enhanced incident
response with continuous updates
reflecting the ever evolving cyber
threat landscape the attack Matrix
underscores the significance of staying
informed and prepared in an increasing
digitalized
world in the Cyber landscape the
Dynamics of attack and defense
constantly evolve amidst these Dynamics
one tool has gained a claim for shedding
light on adversarial Maneuvers the miter
attack Matrix you now know that this
Matrix offers an in-depth understanding
of adversarial tactics and techniques
serving as a procedural guide for cyber
Security Professionals let's delve into
its intricacies miter attack documents
observed adversary tactics and
techniques used against operational
networks The Matrix serves several
purposes first it's an educational
resource it provides a structured
categorization of various cyber threat
behaviors enabling professionals to
understand and recognize them second
it's a tool for red teams
ethical hackers use the Matrix to
simulate realworld attack scenarios
testing defenses against known tactics
and techniques it can also function as a
reference for blue teams Defenders can
Leverage The Matrix to improve their
detection and response strategies and
lastly it can Aid an incident response
the attack Matrix covers tactics
techniques and sub techniques
let's examine the differences between
these terms when a breach occurs The
Matrix can guide response teams in
understanding the attacker's likely next
moves streamlining mitigation efforts
tactics denote the why of an attack in
other words the adversary's objective in
a particular Cyber attack life cycle
stage for instance initial access and
execution are tactics denoting the
attacker's goal goals gaining access to
a system and executing malicious code
respectively on the other hand
techniques explain how the attacker
achieves their tactical objective under
the initial access tactic a technique
might be fishing indicating that the
attacker uses targeted fishing emails
with malicious attachments to gain
access sub techniques offer a more
granular view describing specific
variations or method
within a broader technique using the
previous example of fishing different
types of spear fishing attachments like
Word documents with macros or PDFs with
embedded scripts would be sub techniques
under the fishing technique let's delve
into some tactics and Associated
techniques the first tactic is
persistence which ensures that the
adversary maintains their foothold on
the target environment even even after
the system reboots our logs off
techniques include setting up scheduled
tasks or jobs which allow adversaries to
execute malicious programs at system
startup or specific intervals there's
also the boot or log on auto start
execution where malicious scripts or
executables run automatically during
boot or user
login additionally adversaries can
achieve persistence through Reg registry
run keys or startup folders by adding
program references to specific registry
keys or startup folders the second
tactic credential access involves
accessing system credentials enabling
adversaries to Traverse the environment
with elevated permissions techniques
include input capture where adversaries
use key loggers to harvest
credentials there's also credential dump
in used to extract Account Details like
hashes or clear text passwords and using
Brute Force as a technique involves
repeatedly trying various password
combinations to gain unauthorized access
the third tactic is defense evasion
attackers might employ obusca files or
information which involves encrypting or
disguising scripts to hide their
malicious intent conversely
adversaries might de oisc or decode
files or information on the target
system and a technique like disabling
security tools is when adversaries turn
off or tamper with security software to
evade detection the fourth tactic
exfiltration concerns transmitting data
from the target system to an external
location typically controlled by the
adversary to execute Ute this
adversaries might compress sensitive
data using the data compressed technique
making it less detectable during
transmission they could also transfer
data to Cloud accounts blending stolen
data with legitimate traffic another
method is exfiltration over alternative
protocol where adversaries use
non-standard protocols to transfer data
making detection challenging the fifth
tactic
is privilege escalation which involves
elevating one's permissions typically
from a regular user to an administrative
level techniques include bypassing user
account control to access data which
circumvents built-in Windows mechanisms
that prevent unauthorized changes
adversaries might also exploit software
vulnerabilities for privileged
escalation granting them higher system
privileges
additionally they can modify or create
access tokens to operate with higher or
different
privileges the sixth tactic Discovery is
all about adversaries gaining a better
understanding of the system and its
internal
Network techniques include system
network configuration Discovery where
adversaries retrieve Network
configurations to understand the
environment they might also focus on
system owner or user Discovery to
identify users or system owners for
potential
targeting lastly adversaries detect
software applications installed on
systems through software Discovery the
miter attack Matrix is an indispensable
tool in cyber security cataloging a vast
array of adversarial tactics techniques
and sub techniques The Matrix empowers
cyber Security Professionals to
understand and anticipate threat
behaviors by offering a meticulous
breakdown of an attacker's operating
methods from initial access to data
exfiltration whether utilized as an
educational resource a testing blueprint
for red teams a reference for blue teams
or a guide for incident response the
attack Matrix is a beacon of clarity in
the ever shifting landscape of cyber
warfare
meet Sai like most of us Sai has a
significant digital footprint with
various online accounts in her name
because it's difficult to keep track of
all her passwords she's been reusing a
basic one that's easy to remember her
Story begins with a seemingly innocuous
notification a warning of multiple
failed login attempts targeting one of
her online accounts she initially
dismisses it as a glitch but but the
stream of notifications that follow
reveals a root cause a Brute Force
attack a Brute Force attack is like a
Relentless adversary systematically
guessing passwords until the correct one
is revealed the attacker employing
specialized software was waging a
calculated campaign to gain unauthorized
access to sachi's online account their
Arsenal includes a password dictionary
in other words the attack start Ed with
a predefined list of commonly used
passwords and dictionary words these
serve as the initial targets beyond the
dictionary the attacker explores alpha
numeric combinations exploiting the
power of uppercase and lowercase letters
digits and special characters the
computational force behind these
attempts is formidable to accelerate the
attack the attacker employs automated
soft software capable of executing
thousands of password guesses per second
this Relentless efficiency poses a
significant challenge Sachi decides to
fight back and does an online search to
find information about how to protect
your accounts against cyber attackers
one well-known security organization has
a step-by-step guide on what to do when
someone is trying to get access to your
accounts in response to her adversary
Sachi decides to follow the multifaceted
defense strategy the guide outlines
first she changes her passwords from
simplistic easily guessable passwords to
intricate combinations incorporating a
blend of alpha numeric characters and
symbols making passwords more random
makes them harder to guess through Brute
Force attacks Sachi also decides to
change her passwords more frequently in
the future disrupting any progress the
attack has made where available she
activates two Factor authentication on
her accounts this secondary layer of
authentication acts as an impenetrable
barrier even if the attacker manages to
crack the password recognizing the need
to manage the ever expanding complexity
of passwords Sachi decides to use a
password manager this sophisticated tool
generated and securely stored
cryptographically strong
unique passwords for each account
mitigating the risk of reused passwords
sachi's response to the Brute Force
attack was quick enough that she was
able to stop the attacker in their
tracks her multi-prong defense had
succeeded in the face of a Relentless
Cyber attack sachi's proactive approach
demonstrates the power of knowledge and
Swift action in cyber security by
embracing best practices she effectively
countered her digital adversary her
experience underscores the importance of
being vigilant and proactive in
protecting your digital identity in the
ever evolving online
landscape malicious software commonly
called malware is an umbrella term for
programs and codes specifically designed
to disrupt damage or gain unauthorized
access to computer systems the rise of
malware has coincided with a digital
ages expansion posing increasingly
sophisticated threats to both individual
users and large
organizations this video explores the
various types of malware their purposes
and the potential harm they can cause
let's explore the different types of
malicious software in more detail first
there are viruses a type of malicious
code or program written to alter how our
computer operates a virus inserts or
attaches itself to a legitimate program
or document supporting macros to execute
its
code they are designed to spread from
one computer to another and often also
entail data theft system disruption or
other destructive actions next are worms
a unique category of malware that can
operate independently without being
attached to any specific software
program prog their primary
characteristic is the ability to
replicate themselves allowing them to
spread across networks rapidly worms
don't require human intervention like
opening a file or running a program to
propagate they leverage vulnerabilities
in software to automatically transmit
themselves to other
computers there are also Trojan horses
malicious pieces of software that appear
genuine or harmless to the user they
deceive users into thinking they are
installing or running a beneficial
program a common characteristic of
Trojans is their ability to act as a
back door creating a secret pathway for
hackers to enter and control a system
without the user's knowledge or consent
a bot short for robot is an automated
software program that performs online
tasks malicious Bots are programmed to
carry out harmful activities including
stealing Data infecting Systems with
malware or exploiting vulnerabilities in
network security botn Nets on the other
hand are a collection of interconnected
Bots they are usually comprised of
computers or other devices that are
controlled as a group without the
owner's knowledge next are rootkits a
type of malicious software designed to
infiltrate a computer computer system
without detection their primary
objective is to provide stealthy access
to unauthorized users what sets rootkits
apart from other forms of malware is
their ability to hide deep within a
computer's operating system or firmware
making them especially challenging to
detect and remove spyware is a category
of malware that operates covertly on
devices monitoring users activities
without their awareness this software
can track web browsing habits access
sensitive information and even record
keystrokes its primary purpose is to
gather personal and confidential data
often for advertising purposes or more
malicious activities like identity theft
fishing attacks are deceptive tactics
deployed primarily through electronic
communication like emails or fake
websites the perpetrators craft
convincing messages often mimicking
reputable entities to deceive
individuals into providing sensitive
data such data can include login
credentials credit card numbers or
social security numbers the
repercussions of falling for a fishing
scam can be severe ranging from
Financial loss to identity theft then
there is ransomware a particularly
malicious form of malware
that encrypts a user's files rendering
them
inaccessible the victim is presented
with a ransom note demanding payment in
exchange for the decryption key payment
is typically in cryptocurrency due to
its anonymity the encrypted data may be
permanently lost or released publicly if
the ransom isn't paid within the
specified time frame next is adware
which stands at the intersection of
software and adver advertising while
some adwar programs are legitimate and
upfront about their advertising
activities others can be intrusive they
flood users with popup ads banners and
redirects deteriorating the browsing
experience even more concerning some
adware can open gateways for other
malicious software to be installed on
the device posing further risks and last
our key loggers stealthy software
designed to record every keystroke made
on a device they can capture everything
from casual messages to sensitive login
details and personal data while some key
loggers are used for legitimate purposes
like parental controls others are
deployed maliciously to harvest
confidential data as technology
continually evolves so does the
complexity and severity of malicious
software threats however with a robust
understanding in of these threats their
operating methods and their potential
harm you can be better prepared in the
next video you will learn how to defend
against these types of malicious
software in this interconnected digital
age malicious software poses an
everpresent threat from ransomware that
holds your data Hostage to key loggers
that discreetly record every keystroke
the variety and complexity of these
threats are vast however equipped with
the right knowledge and tools you can
fortify your defenses against
them this video explores the prevention
and detection methods for various types
of malicious software offering
actionable advice to ensure the
integrity and safety of your digital
assets first let's examine methods for
preventing and detecting malicious
software regular security related sof
software updates will keep all operating
systems and software protected you
should also install reputable antivirus
and anti-malware
software ensure that they are regularly
updated and perform routine scans and
enabling a firewall on your computer and
network will filter out malicious
traffic furthermore you should be wary
of unexpected email attachments and
links fishing emails often appear legit
imate but can carry malware and lastly
only download software and files from
trusted sources and avoid pirated
software next are counter measures and
response strategies you can undertake to
maintain good security for viruses you
should use real-time antivirus software
in case of detection you should
quarantine the infected file and run a
full system scan when it comes to worms
you should isolate affected devices from
the network to prevent them from
spreading you can use a specialized
removal tool with Trojan horses you
should avoid downloading files from
untrustworthy sources you can use
anti-malware software for detection and
removal to combat Bots and botn Nets you
should regularly update all devices and
employ network monitoring tools to
detect unusual traffic for rootkits you
can use rootkit detection Tools in
severe cases a complete system
reinstallation may be necessary when it
comes to spyware regular scans with
anti-spyware tools should be performed
you should also be cautious with
software installations to avoid bundled
spyware next to combat fishing you can
use email filters and be skeptical of
unsolicited emails users should be
trained to recognize fishing attempts to
enhance security against ransomware it's
crucial to back up vital data
consistently if you fall victim to an
attack resist the urge to pay the ransom
and instead seek expert assistance when
dealing with adware employing ad
blockers and anti- adware tools can be
highly beneficial and whenever
installing software
choose custom installations to avoid
inadvertently adding bundled
applications lastly when it comes to key
loggers ensure your software is
regularly updated and scanned with
reliable anti-malware tools for added
protection during sensitive data entry
consider using onscreen keyboards in
conclusion the threats individuals and
organizations face are manifold
malicious actors continually devise
novel ways to breach defenses however
proactive measures and well-informed
strategies can make all the difference
by constantly updating software
employing robust antivirus Solutions and
staying Vigilant you can significantly
mitigate these threats remember the
first line of defense against any cyber
threat is awareness equipping yourself
with relevant knowledge is a pivotal
step towards a safe for digital
future The Internet of Things or iot is
a concept that has gained significant
traction over the past decade it refers
to the network of physical objects
embedded with sensors software and other
Technologies to connect and exchange
data with other devices and systems over
the Internet these objects range from
ordinary household items to
sophisticated industrial tools with
billions of devices connected globally
iot is a significant technology creating
a more connected World an iot device is
typically made up of a circuit board
with sensors attached that uses Wi-Fi to
connect to the
internet these devices connect and
transmit data allowing you to Monitor
and control them remotely this data can
then be analyzed to optimize processes
make informed decisions and un cover
patterns and Trends iot device Hardware
can be broadly categorized into two
types microcontrollers are MCU and
microprocessors are
mpus microcontrollers are less expensive
and simpler to operate than mpus an MCU
contains many functions like input and
output CPU Ram ROM and serial
communication within the chip itself
they often use a real-time operating
system or rtos or they run bare metal
with operating system and provide
real-time response and highly
deterministic reactions to external
events microprocessors on the other hand
draw functionality from components in
supporting chips they usually run a
general purpose OS such as Windows or
Linux providing a nondeterministic
real-time response iot devices can also
be categorized based on their
functionality and use cases here are
some of the common types first are
consumer iot devices like smart TVs
speakers toys wearables and smart
appliances for example a smart fridge
can keep track of its contents suggest
recipes and even order groceries in the
commercial sector iot devices can be
used in construction agriculture health
care and other Industries for example in
healthcare wearable devices can monitor
a patient's Health in real
time there are also industrial iot
devices used in Industries like
manufacturing Logistics Transportation
energy and other industrial sectors for
example in manufacturing iot devices can
monitor equipment and performance and
then predict potential failures
infrastructure iot devices are used to
Monitor and control operations in public
spaces and communities they include
devices for smart cities like traffic
and weather monitoring systems last are
military and defense iot devices used
for surveillance reconnaissance and
Battlefield Health monitoring each of
these categories has its own set of
requirements and challenges when it
comes to implementing M ation and
security iot devices are diverse
spanning from lighting to Agriculture
and transportation here are some
examples sensors are one of the oldest
and most common types of iot devices
both individuals and businesses use them
some of the most common types include
Optical sensors for automatic street
lights temperature sensors for
thermostats and internal sensors
embedded in industrial Machinery iot
motion sensors are often included as
part of more advanced security systems
such as smart home security cameras and
audio recording devices in residential
commercial and Industrial spaces smart
home devices include speakers
intelligent light bulbs connected smoke
detectors and smart door locks
intelligent appliances include smart
home devices like smart thermostats
intelligent refrigerators and connected
televisions that rely on iot devices to
gather environmental information and
make the appropriate adjustments you are
probably familiar with smart wearables
one of the most recognizable iot devices
right now the most common wearables are
fitness trackers watches and earbuds
there are also personal medical devices
like pacemakers
remote medical devices can help Monitor
and share a patient's vital signs or
detect early signs of health issues for
fast
intervention and last are autonomous
vehicles self-driving cars and other
connected Vehicles rely on the internet
to share realtime
information sensors throughout the
vehicle help map its surroundings
transmit camera footage and respond to
traffic signals iot devices offer
numerous benefits across various
Industries including manufacturing
Transportation energy agriculture retail
and government they enable organizations
to analyze and act on data in real time
leading to smart decisionmaking one key
benefit is efficiency iot devices can
streamline operational and mechanical
processes reducing wasted materials and
lowering costs the data collected by iot
devices can provide valuable insights
into business operations and customer
Behavior with reliable real-time data
businesses can innovate and expand into
new lines of business that were
previously not possible and businesses
can use iot to turn their data into
insights and those insights into action
creating a real competitive advantage in
conclusion iot devic business play a
crucial role in our hyperconnected world
they help businesses operate more
efficiently make informed decisions and
even open up new possibilities for
Innovation as technology advances we can
expect the impact of iot devices to grow
even
further The Internet of Things or iot
has revolutionized how we interact with
devices however with this
interconnectivity comes new challenges
es particularly in cyber security this
video provides an overview of an iot
attack how it works and the various
types of attacks that can be used
against iot devices first let's explore
what an iot attack is an iot attack is a
compromise of an iot system a cyber
criminal can launch an iot attack to
steal information or take over an
automated or iot system now that you are
aware of what an iot attack is let's
examine how it works iot attacks work by
exploiting vulnerabilities in the
devices or networks these
vulnerabilities can be due to various
factors once these vulnerabilities are
exploited cyber criminals can infect
devices with malware or use loopholes
like unoptimized user permissions to
break into systems the process of an iot
attack
generally involves the following steps
once a vulnerability is identified the
attacker exploits it to gain control
over the device this can be done by
using default passwords exploiting
firmware vulnerabilities or leveraging
unsecured communication
channels several types of attacks can be
used against iot devices let's explore
some common ones physical attacks occur
when anyone can physically access as iot
devices some cyber security attacks
occur from the inside of a company so
it's essential that iot devices are in a
protected area most businesses deliver
gadgets with default passwords and don't
even advise you to change them this
often happens with security cameras home
routers and light control systems a
denial of service or Doss attack occurs
when a service such as a website becomes
unavailable due to a flood of internet
traffic numerous systems coordinated via
aotn net simultaneously direct service
requests to a single Target overwhelming
it this causes the system to be
overloaded with requests preventing some
or all legitimate requests from being
fulfilled Doss attacks exploit the often
limited security features and processing
power of some iot devices connected
cameras smart home appliances and
sensors are particularly vulnerable to
this kind of attack iot devices are also
particularly vulnerable to network
attacks such as data theft iot devices
are often designed to be always
connected to the internet which can
leave them exposed to network attacks if
they don't use security communication
protocols many iot devices also have
limited processing capabilities which
may prevent them from using Advanced
encryption methods to protect the data
they transmit and receive next is
spoofing which involves disguising
communication from an unknown source as
being from a known trusted Source by
masquerading as a legitimate device
attackers can steal sensitive data from
the network or other devices connected
to it once an iot device is spoofed it
may Grant aack access to the wider
Network allowing them to move laterally
and Target more secured nodes or data
centers spoofing can lead to
man-in-the-middle attacks these happen
when attackers secretly relay and
possibly alter the communication between
two iot devices or between an iot device
and another party the two parties
believe they are directly communicating
with each other attackers can also use
botn Nets
these are networks of compromised iot
devices that an attacker can control
remotely one of the most infamous
examples is the marai botnet which used
thousands of vulnerable devices to
launch devastating denial of service
attacks and last are ransomware attacks
ransomware is malicious software
designed to block access to a computer
system until a sum of money is paid iot
devices can be be targeted by ransomware
leading to Serious data breaches in
summary while the Internet of Things has
numerous benefits it also opens up new
avenues for cyber attacks therefore
understanding the potential risks and
taking appropriate measures to secure
iot devices and networks is crucial for
businesses and individuals manufacturers
developers and end users alike must
prioritize security to ensure that
conveni ience does not come at the cost
of
security The Internet of Things has
fundamentally changed how we use and
interact with devices but as you learned
in the previous video the
interconnectivity it offers comes with
risks this video explores the risks
associated with iot attacks and
identifies security measures that can be
taken to protect against such attacks
let's explore the risks associated with
iot attacks in more more detail iot
attacks pose significant risks including
data theft system compromise and malware
infection let's examine some of these
risks first is Data Theft iot devices
often store sensitive data making them
attractive targets for cyber criminals
once an attacker gains access to an iot
device they can steal this data for
various malicious purposes Beyond just
state of theft there's also the danger
of system compromise this can lead to
more widespread damage as the attacker
moves laterally through the network
another significant concern is malware
infection infected iot devices can be
used to carry out further attacks for
example a compromised iot device could
be used as part of a botn net and a
denial of service attack next
convergence can increase the attack
surface the term refers to the
combination of multiple application
systems into one system that delivers
the core functionalities of all the
systems the stealthy nature of iot
devices operating in the background
without human interaction makes it
difficult to detect when they have been
compromised furthermore many iot devices
do not encrypt their data making it easy
for attackers to intercept and read it
additionally they often lack basic
security protections making them easy
targets for attackers another risk is
legacy and Rogue devices Legacy devices
are no longer supported by the
manufacturer this means they have
unpatched vulnerabilities that make them
susceptible to attacks similarly Rogue
devices that are added to the network
without proper Security checks can also
pose a risk unsec cured cloud storage
may allow hackers to easily manipulate
or steal confidential data unpatched
software or firmware in iot devices is
another lurking threat outdated iot
software or firmware contains known
vulnerabilities providing threat actors
a loophole to exploit weaknesses adding
to the list of risks is insufficient
data protection when data measures fall
short it can lead to breaches and result
in the loss of sensitive information
luckily there are several security
measures that can be taken to protect
against iot attacks zero trust practices
should be implemented Network
segmentation can be applied to prevent
an attacker from moving laterally and
compromising assets after
intrusion you should also ensure that
devices are securely provisioned and
that security measures are in place from
the moment a device is powered on there
should also be secure connectivity
between devices and the cloud to prevent
attackers from intercepting data during
transmission and data stored and
processed in the cloud should be secured
by implementing robust security measures
lastly you should regularly update
device firmware to patch any known
vulnerabilities that attackers could
exploit in an age where the Internet of
Things seamlessly integrates into our
daily lives it becomes Paramount to
understand the associated risks and
actively Implement measures to
counteract them the vast benefits of iot
are countered by vulnerabilities ranging
from data theft and system compromise to
malware infections by reducing attack
surfaces implementing zero trust
practices ensuring secure device
provisioning and maintaining regular
software up updates you can pave the way
to a safer iot landscape where
Innovation is matched with
security security is Paramount when it
comes to the internet of things
especially when dealing with
foundational architecture layers this
video delves into the intricacies of iot
security highlighting the significance
of the device and Gateway layer and
emphasizing the importance of robust
protective measures the foundational
architecture layers face various threats
often classified using the stride model
remember that stride stands for spoofing
tampering repudiation information
disclosure denial of service and
elevation of privilege it's also crucial
to adhere to the Microsoft security
development life cycle or sdl practices
to ensure a secure design and
construction of iot
architectures let's quickly revisit what
the device and Gateway layer is if you
can remember it's a devic's immediate
physical and digital vicinity this
encompasses physical access and
peer-to-peer digital access industrial
firms commonly utilize the Purdue model
from the ISA 95 standard to safeguard
Network bandwidth while ensuring
realtime determinism the Purdue model
adds an extra layer of security through
the defense in depth approach now it's
time to explore some iot attack
prevention strategies iot devices and
services benefit from having a robust
device identity this identity can be
established using strong authentication
via certificates MFA or passwordless
methods renewable credentials an
organized iot device registry and a
hardware route of trust
a hardware route of trust uniquely
ensures safe credential storage in a
tamper resistant Hardware unalterable
onboarding identity associated with the
physical device and unique per device
renewable credentials to minimize the
Fallout of compromised identities or
unauthorized workloads iot systems
should Implement least privileged Access
Control this involves scoped work load
access controls for devices just in time
access strong authentication methods and
conditional access based on several
contextual parameters of a device
furthermore Network micro segmentation
in network design allows for in-depth
defense by segmenting iot devices
according to traffic patterns and risk
exposure this tactic reduces the threat
posed by compromised devices and
prevents them from accessing valuable
assets usually such segmentation is
implemented using Next Generation
firewalls next let's examine device
health and zero trust criteria two other
vital components of an attack prevention
strategy under the zero trust Paradigm
device health becomes pivotal in
determining its risk profile and
trustworthiness devices that are deemed
healthy
are granted access to iot applications
and services while those with
questionable Health should be marked for
remediation for iot devices to truly
align with zero trust they should have a
hardware route of trust use renewable
access credentials apply least
privileged access controls and send
accurate device health signals they
should also regularly receive security
updates possess device management
features for automated configuration and
response Run Security agents that align
with security monitoring and response
systems limit physical vulnerability by
deactivating unnecessary features and
secure any data stored on them using
recognized encryption methods key to any
defense strategy is a comprehensive iot
and OT security solution like Microsoft
Defender for
iot it is a unified security solution
built specific Al to identify iot and
operation technology or OT devices
vulnerabilities and threats you can use
Defender for iot to secure your entire
iot OT environment including existing
devices that may not have built-in
security agents it provides visibility
threat detection response and
integration with Sim sore and xdr
platforms an important feature of
Defender for iot is agentless device
monitoring it is used to secure iot and
OT devices that lack embedded security
agents if not secured these devices can
be susceptible to
misconfigurations remain unpatched and
be invisible to it and security
teams Defender for iot's agentless
device monitoring provides visibility
into the network it does so by
identifying devices
their specifics and their communication
patterns using data from Network sensors
Microsoft Defender for endpoint and
third-party sources the system employs
machine learning threat intelligence and
behavioral analytics to assess risks and
manage vulnerabilities it is capable of
identifying various security risks such
as unpatched devices open ports
unauthorized applications and unexpected
changes in device configurations PLC
code or firmware ultimately securing The
Internet of Things requires a
multifaceted strategy that encompasses
everything from the device and Gateway
layer to the application of zero trust
principles tools like Microsoft Defender
for iot can be used to prevent attacks
as it offers Advanced agentless
monitoring and a holistic view of device
health and network activity using
comprehensive Solutions like Defender
for iot paired with regular
vulnerability assessments minimizes risk
and ensures the security of both devices
and the data they handle as we venture
further into the iot era it's Paramount
to prioritize security integrate
Advanced protective measures and
consistently refine defenses against
emerging threats
the Azure Internet of Things is a
collection of Microsoft managed cloud
services Edge components and sdks that
let you connect Monitor and control your
iot assets at scale in simpler terms an
iot solution is made up of iot devices
that communicate with cloud services in
this video you will focus on the
critical components of iot solutions
devices iot CL CL services and solution
wide concerns other items in this lesson
provide more detail on each of these
components first let's focus on solution
options there are two primary approaches
to developing an iot solution for your
business using a managed app platform or
employing platform Services managed app
platforms like Azure iot Central
simplify the evaluation process of your
iot
solution this approach offers a
straightforward pricing structure and
takes care of the security and
management of your iot applications and
devices however it limits the
customization of aspects like branding
dashboards user roles devices and
Telemetry on the other hand platform
Services provide a comprehensive set of
building blocks for tailored and
flexible iot applications essential
Azure iot platform Services include
Azure iot Hub device provisioning
service Azure digital twins Azure data
Explorer Azure storage platform and
Azure
functions these allow for full
customization and control over your iot
solution enabling you to scale and
secure Services as per your needs they
also enable you to leverage in-house or
partner expertise for device onboarding
and service
provisioning while this method gives you
greater control over your solution it
requires a more detailed approach to
cost control as you are fine-tuning
Services yourself let's now explore the
components of iot solutions starting
with iot devices iot devices are
essentially circuit boards with sensors
that use Wi-Fi for internet connectivity
examples include include pressure
sensors on oil pumps temperature and
humidity sensors in AC units
accelerometers in elevators and presence
sensors in rooms many manufacturers
offer a diverse range of devices
suitable for Solutions Azure has a
catalog of devices certified for iot hub
for Prototype creation a Raspberry Pi
can be used for microprocessor devices
allowing the addition of various sensors
ensors these often come with built-in
sensors like temperature and
accelerometer sensors Microsoft supplies
op Source device software development
kits or sdks for app development on
these devices now let's discuss
connectivity iot devices usually send
sensor data to cloud services various
communication types are feasible such as
Cloud to device commands examples of
these communications include
Refrigeration trucks that send
temperature data to an iot Hub cloud
services that instruct devices to modify
Telemetry
frequency devices that send alerts to
the iot hub when certain thresholds are
exceeded like temperature in a chemical
reactor thermostats reporting maximum
temperatures post reboot and cloud
services that dictate Target
temperatures for devices supported
communication protocols by iot device
sdks and iot hub include
HTTP
mqtt and
amqp in some situations iot devices
might require a gateway to connect to
cloud
services now let's explore the distinct
characteristics of iot devices unlike
standard clients like browsers or apps
iot devices function as embedded systems
without human
interaction device sdks can assist in
securely and dependably connecting these
devices to cloud services next let's
examine cloud services in iot cloud
services in iot typically perform the
following tasks collect large-scale
Telemetry from devices deciding on its
processing and storage analyze Telemetry
for insights
both in real time and
postevent dispatch commands from the
cloud to specific devices regulate
device provisioning and access to
infrastructure oversee device States and
activities and administer device
firmware for example in remote
monitoring of an oil pumping station
Telemetry from the pumps is used to
identify any anomalies if a cloud
service identifies an anomaly
it can instruct a device to rectify it
thus optimizing solution efficiency
while services like iot Hub and device
provisioning service are tailored for
iot others like storage and
visualization offer generalized Services
now that you have a good understanding
of the role of iot cloud services let's
discuss concerns that affect all
components of an iot solution every iot
solution must consider security this
encompasses physical security
authentication authorization and
encryption solution management which
covers deployment and monitoring should
also be considered and it must Ensure
High availability and a disaster
recovery plan for all
components lastly scalability for every
service involved should be considered
Azure iot offers a comprehensive s of
cloud services Edge components and sdks
managed by
Microsoft this Suite facilitates
seamless connectivity monitoring and
control of iot devices on a vast scale
integral to these Solutions iot devices
range from sensors on oil pumps to
thermostats and have unique
characteristics differing from standard
Tech clients in essence azure iot
provides a robust framework for
businesses to harness the power of iot
ensuring efficiency flexibility and
scalability Defender for iot allows for
a comprehensive view of operational
technology or OT and information
technology or it assets and network
zones in doing so it offers a single
interface for operational and security
teams to Monitor and protect network
devices systems and
interconnections remember OT is the
hardware and software systems that
manage Monitor and control industrial
operations with a focus on the physical
devices and processes they use OT is
commonly used when systems require
Direct Control and monitoring of
physical devices Microsoft Defender for
iot
is a security solution tailored for OT
networks in business critical
infrastructures it facilitates a unified
asset management and security monitoring
approach by integrating OT and it
governance tools and
Technology let's examine the key
features of Microsoft Defender for iot
first it offers non-intrusive passive
and agentless monitoring it does so by
monitoring Network environments to
discover and secure OT and iot devices
this monitoring is possible without
requiring agents to be installed on
devices thereby preserving system
stability and performance second it
performs automatic asset Discovery
Defender automatically identifies
unmanaged assets their connections and
vulnerabilities this identification
provides comprehensive visibility in
into all devices on the network third it
provides security monitoring Defender
can detect complex threats by leveraging
OT and iot aware behavioral analytics
and advanced threat
intelligence these include zerod day
malware and sophisticated attack tactics
that traditional signature-based
defenses might miss fourth and last it
has advanced Network Discovery tools for
instance its device inventory offers
detailed information on each device such
as the device ID type class and
protocols and a device map illustrates
the connections between OT devices
Network topologies and segmentation
according to the Purdue model for IC
security this feature is particularly
useful for implementing zero trust
policies and enabling detailed
understanding and management of device
interconnectivity for Network
segmentation it also allows granular
Access
Control moving on from key features
let's explore how Defender for iot
allows you to manage Network risks and
vulnerabilities after mapping out
devices on a network it is essential to
monitor them for potential risks and
vulnerabilities Microsoft Defender for
iot provides risk assessment reports
from each sensor console thereby
identifying issues such as unauthorized
devices unpatched systems unauthorized
internet connections and devices with
open ports that are not in use the data
from the reports can be used to
prioritize mitigation efforts on the
most sensitive and critical OT iot
assets these are devices whose
compromise could lead to significant
organizational impact
such as Revenue loss on-site safety
incidents or the theft of sensitive
intellectual property the OT iot
security landscape consistently evolves
presenting new threats and
vulnerabilities Defender for iot offers
threat intelligence updates its
dedicated security research group known
as section 52 specializes in OT iot
security this team consists of experts
in threat hunting malware reverse
engineering incident response and data
analysis section 52 also regularly
develops threat intelligence packages
tailored for OT iot environments these
packages provide updates on incidents of
concern such as new malware signatures
malicious DNS queries and IP addresses
associated with threats these packages
also provide updates on common
vulnerabilities and exposures to enhance
the vulnerability management
capabilities of Defender for iot and
asset profiles to improve the asset
Discovery features within Defender for
iot organizations should ensure that
their Defender for iot deployment is
consistently updated with the latest
threat intelligence packages provided by
section 52 to maintain robust Security
in OT iot environments this practice
helps in promptly addressing new and
emerging security
challenges in conclusion Microsoft
Defender for iot provides a robust and
sophisticated defense mechanism tailored
to OT and iot networks unique and
complex ecosystems by offering passive
monitoring asset Discovery security
monitoring and Advanced Network mapping
tools it ensures comprehensive
visibility and security for industrial
environments Defender for iot's
integration with existing it and OT
infrastructures coupled with the
expertise of section 52's continuous
threat intelligence updates equips
organizations to tackle emerging cyber
threats preemptively a dynamic
intelligent and Integrated Security
approach like Microsoft Defender for iot
has become increasingly essential for
protecting the critical infrastructures
that underpin modern
Enterprises Microsoft Defender for iot
is an agile and sophisticated security
platform that adapts to diverse
operational needs and offers deployment
flexibility in this video you will learn
about its deployment and how it assures
a streamlined onboarding process process
through the Azure portal first let's
examine how it centrally manages sites
and sensors with minimal fuss its
deployment flexibility means it can be
implemented in an air gapped on premises
environment or integrated with cloud
services on premises device sensors can
be registered and managed via the Azure
portal this streamlines operational and
maintenance efforts especially for
organizations already using Microsoft
and Azure Services the Azure portal
allows sensors to be easily registered
to a specific Azure subscription and
resource using the getting started page
this allows for centralized management
of sensors and sites from the cloud once
sensors are onboarded they appear on the
defender for iot sites and sensors page
within the Azure portal this interface
provides Azure user users with detailed
information about each site and sensor
including sensor Zone assignment
connection status and threat
intelligence update status this page
also allows for the addition of more
sensors to the network as needed lastly
Defender for iot offers operational
alerts to monitor Network events this is
particularly useful for identifying and
rectifying issues with with equipment
that is malfunctioning or misconfigured
these alerts enable timely intervention
ensuring that problems like a
misconfigured engineering workspace can
be detected and their root causes
addressed promptly this is a screenshot
of the alerts page on a sensor console
it shows the alerts triggered by the
devices attached to the sensor Microsoft
Defender for iot is a testament to the
power of integration in a enhancing
cyber security for example its
integration capabilities offers seamless
security monitoring integrating Defender
for iot with existing security and
governance systems streamlines
operations across different teams this
integration supports a cohesive
experience for teams by combining OT and
iot security with other systems
Microsoft Defender for iot also directly
integrates with thirdparty services like
Splunk IBM Q radar and service now such
Integrations help break down
communication barriers between iot and
OT teams and establish a common
operational language furthermore
Defender for iot offers efficient
Incident Management through integration
integration supports quick resolution of
complex attacks that may affect both it
and OT domains exemplified by
sophisticated threats like Triton
integration allows you to leverage
existing workflows training and tools
developed for security operations center
or S so teams for iot OT security next
let's discuss advantages of integrating
Microsoft Defender for iot with
Microsoft Sentinel first it enhances s
so operations Integrations with
Microsoft Sentinel accelerates detection
and response times during the entire
attack life cycle Sentinel provides
workbooks analytics rules and playbooks
designed to improve monitoring and
response to OT threats identified by
Defender for iot furthermore when
installing the defender for iot data
connector in Microsoft Sentinel users
gain access to built-in content
including workbooks that visualize and
monitor Defender for iot data within
Sentinel in doing so it facilitates
guided investigations based on incidents
alerts and OT asset activities the
built-in content also includes analytics
rule templates these rules use alerts
generated by Defender for iot related to
OT Network traffic to configure
incidents in Sentinel lastly integration
with Sentinel enhances Automation and
orchestration you can use sentinel
playbooks to configure automatic
remediation actions in response to
alerts or incidents these can be
triggered by analytics or automation
rules streamlining the threat response
process in summary Microsoft Defender
for iot seamlessly integrates with both
on premises and Cloud infrastructures it
also allows easy onboarding and
centralized management of iot devices
through the Azure portal and these
functionalities ensure a streamlined
operational experience what's more the
platform's capability to integrate with
existing security services such as
Microsoft Sentinel enhances Incident
Management efficiency and strengthens
the overall security posture through
operational alerts and integration with
various Microsoft and partner Services
Defender for iot empowers organizations
to maintain a Vigilant and proactive
stance congratulations on reaching the
end of this module before you move on to
the quiz let's recap the key insights
and Concepts about Advanced threats and
mitigation that were covered you started
off by learning about susceptible
infrastructure for example cloud
infrastructures while beneficial carry
risks of misconfigurations and data
exposure by understanding the types
vulnerabilities and impact of
susceptible infrastructure you can
better prepare and defend against
potential threats among some of the
important questions you should ask when
assessing an infastructure or what is
the potential damage if a vulnerability
is exploited and how easy can it be
exploited you also specifically learned
about how to identify and assess
vulnerabilities in susceptible
infrastructure so that you can
prioritize and Implement effective
security measures one way in which you
can proactively identify and address
threats is by using the miter attack
Matrix it is a framework that provides a
comprehensive overview of the
relationship between attacker tactics
techniques and sub
techniques a tactic is a specific
objective or goal while a technique is
the specific method or procedure cyber
attackers use to reach their objective
for example if an attacker's objective
is to gain credential access they could
use brute force remember Sachi she had
to implement a multifaceted defense
strategy to outwit an attacker trying to
gain access to her accounts she changed
her passwords to more complex ones
enabled two-factor authentication on her
accounts and started using a password
manager to manage the complexity of her
new passwords you also learned about
different types of malicious software
like viruses worms Trojan horses and
more but just knowing that there are
different types of malware isn't enough
which is why you also learned how to
prevent detect and counteract malware
for example one key way you can protect
operating systems and software is to
implement frequent security related
updates regular updates ensure that
discovered vulnerabilities are patched
and updating malware definitions ensures
that your protective tools can recognize
and counteract even new forms of
malicious software in the second part of
the module you learned about the
internet of things one of the most
well-known consumer iot devices is a
smartwatch that gathers realtime health
related data about the person wearing it
there are also commercial industrial
infrastructure and Military and defense
iot devices sensors are one of the
oldest and most common types of iot
devices that individuals businesses and
governments use for example example
there are Optical sensors for automatic
street lights temperature sensors for
thermostats and internal sensors
embedded in industrial Machinery The
Internet of Things has opened up a whole
new world of possibilities but it comes
with its own
challenges cyber attackers can
compromise an iot system by targeting
devices networks data and users they can
steal information or even take over an
iot system some of the most common types
of attacks include physical attacks
device impersonation and spoofing there
are also several types of risks
associated with the internet of things
for example system compromise malware
infection and unsecured cloud storage
some of the security measures you can
take is to eliminate unnecessary
internet connections to reduce the
attack surface you should also Implement
zero trust practices to prevent lateral
movement attack prevention strategies
are critical when it comes to iot
devices these strategies include
emphasizing strong device identity
applying least privileged access
principles implementing Network micro
segmentation and ensuring device health
by following zero trust principles in
this part of the module you also learn
learn about iot
Solutions you have two options when it
comes to iot Solutions use a managed app
platform like Azure iot Central or
employee platform
Services these platform Services include
Azure iot Hub Azure digital Twins and
Azure storage platform they allow for
full customization and control over your
iot solution enabling you to scale and
secure Services as per your need
a vital iot security solution is
Microsoft Defender for iot it
facilitates a unified asset management
and security monitoring approach by
integrating OT and it governance tools
and Technology a key feature offered by
Defender for iot is non-intrusive
passive and agentless monitoring
agentless monitoring identifies devices
their specifics and their communication
patterns
using data from Network sensors
Microsoft Defender for endpoint and
third-party sources this monitoring is
possible without requiring embedded
agents to be installed on devices
thereby preserving system stability and
performance Defender for iot has risk
and vulnerability tracking
prioritization and mitigation
functionalities it provides risk
assessment reports from each sensor cons
console thereby identifying issues such
as unauthorized devices unpatched
systems unauthorized internet
connections and devices with open ports
that are not in use the data from the
reports can be used to prioritize
mitigation efforts on the most sensitive
and critical OT iot assets you also
learned about the Azure well
architectured framework a blueprint that
ensures an iot Solutions components are
efficient reliable secure and cost
effective this framework has five
pillars cost optimization security
reliability performance efficiency and
operational
excellence together they serve as a
solid foundation for iot Solutions there
are also five security designed
principles that are informed by the well
architectured framework these are strong
identity least privilege device health
device update and monitoring an incident
response by embedding these design
principles into an iot architecture you
can help ensure that the system is
secure by Design with proactive measures
in place to mitigate and respond to
potential security threats finally you
completed an exercise about creating a
secure iot device and that wraps up the
module summary you've broadened your
knowledge on the nuances of advanced
threats and the critical strategies to
mitigate them effectively should you
find yourself needing a refresher the
material is always there for you to
review good luck with the module
quiz in today's hyperconnected world the
cyber security threat landscape is in a
Perpetual state of evolution new threats
emerge constantly and staying ahead of
the curve is critical to safeguarding an
organization against cyber attacks in
this video you will explore the concepts
of changing threat Landscapes attack
surfaces and threat vectors in cyber
security let's start by dissecting the
term threat landscape the threat
landscape encompasses all potential
risks and Hazards to an organization's
information security it's a vast and
ever shifting Terrain that includes
internal and external threats within
this landscape there are attack surfaces
which you are already familiar with if
an attack surface is exploited it
becomes a potential entry point for
malicious actors to breach an
organization's systems or data here are
some common and Enterprise relevant
attack surfaces first there's email this
is a primary attack surface where where
cyber criminals can leverage fishing
malware and
ransomware next is social media these
platforms are fertile ground for social
engineering attacks including fishing
and malware
distribution you also have to consider
removable devices like
USBS malware infection via removable
devices can lead to Data Theft and
breaches another potential attack
surface is browser
browsers can be exploited through
vulnerabilities malicious websites and
fishing attacks servers also comprise an
attack surface critical server
components can be targeted by cyber
attacks potentially leading to data
breaches or service
disruptions when it comes to storage
databases are vulnerable because they
store vast amounts of sensitive
information making them attractive
targets and don't forget about
firewalls while they serve as a defense
mechanism attackers can exploit
misconfigurations or
vulnerabilities and last but not least
is the internet the broader Network
itself can pose security risks with
threats like dos attacks and network
intrusions certainly it's essential to
highlight that each of these common and
Enterprise relevant attack surfaces can
serve as entry points for attackers to
infiltrate an organization's Network and
systems these entry points are often
targeted due to their vulnerabilities or
the potential for social engineering
attacks now that you have delved into
attack surfaces in more detail let's
move on to threat vectors A Threat
Vector is an Avenue or method attackers
use to exploit an organization's threat
landscape and gain unauthorized access
to systems or data
threat vectors Encompass a range of
attack techniques including fishing
which involves tricking individuals into
revealing sensitive information or
installing malware through deceptive
emails malware is another technique that
uses viruses Trojans and ransomware
designed to infiltrate steel data or
cause damage without
consent there are also Insider threats
that must be considered these arise from
individuals within an organization who
misuse their access or share sensitive
data intentionally or accidentally and
don't forget about zerod day exploits
zero day exploits Target unknown
software vulnerabilities making them
challenging to defend against let's
explore two other Advanced threat
vectors first are supply chain attacks
these attacks Target third-party vendors
or suppliers to gain access to an
organization's systems or data second
are advanced persistent threats or
apts APS are highly sophisticated
long-term attacks designed to evade
detection and persist within an
organization's Network guarding against
Advanced threat vectors Demands a
multi-layered security approach let's
examine some tools and methods that can
support such an approach you should be
familiar with these so think of this as
a
refresher Next Generation firewalls can
be used to effectively detect and block
malicious traffic including zero day
attacks intrusion detection and
prevention systems or
ids/ips can be leveraged to identify and
block malicious activity within a
network PR promptly you can use Advanced
endpoint Security Solutions to secure
devices from malware and other threats
and another solution you know well is
security information and event
management or Sim Sim systems collect
and analyze logs to identify suspicious
activities while understanding the tools
and strategies to guard against Advanced
threat vectors is crucial it's equally
vital to consider holistic approach to
cyber security Beyond just tools
protecting against cyber attacks
requires an organization-wide commitment
and proactive strategies let's examine
some of the broader measures that can be
adopted to enhance an organizations
cyber resilience organizations should
deploy robust security controls
including firewalls intrusion detection
systems and data
encryption these measures fortify an
organization's defenses against a wide
range of threats they should also
educate their Workforce on cyber
security best practices employees are
the first line of defense against
threats and they should be equipped with
the knowledge and skills needed to
identify and respond to potential risks
effectively continuous monitoring is
just as important regularly monitoring
systems and data for SCI of suspicious
activity enables Swift action upon
detection lastly organizations should
have incident response plans it is vital
to develop and maintain an incident
response plan to respond effectively in
the event of a Cyber attack in
conclusion the cyber security landscape
is an Ever evolving Battlefield that
demands constant
vigilance understanding the shifting
threat landscape recognizing attack
surfaces and vectors and implementing
robust security measures Empower
organizations to mitigate risks and
protect valuable Assets in this video
you will explore the world of access
Brokers and ransomware as a service in
an age where data is more valuable than
ever understanding these Concepts is
crucial to safeguarding digital assets
you'll learn what access services and
brokers are review what you know about
ransomware learn how to distinguish
between locker and crypto ransomware and
understand how ransomware as a service
or Raz Works to kick things off let's
talk about access services in the realm
of cyber security access Services refer
to how individuals or entities gain
unauthorized access to computer systems
networks or data access Services can
come in various forms but this video
specifically focuses on access
Brokers access Brokers are individuals
are groups that specialize in acquiring
and selling unauthorized access to
compromised
systems these Brokers play a significant
role in the dark web economy serving as
intermediaries between hackers and
potential buyers the access they auction
off can pave the way for various cyber
attacks one such threat is ransomware by
now you know that ransomware is
malicious software designed to deny
access to a computer system encrypt data
are both until a ransom is paid it's
crucial to distinguish between two
primary types of ransomware locker and
crypto ransomware as the name suggests
locker ransomware locks you out of your
system your you'll find yourself staring
at a screen demanding a payment to
regain access to your computer while
frustrating Locker ransomware usually
doesn't encrypt your data on the other
hand crypto ransomware takes a more
Insidious approach it encrypts your data
using complex encryption algorithms
rendering it inaccessible until you pay
the ransom this type of ransomware can
be devastating for individuals and
organizations like now let's delve into
the concept of ransomware as a service
or Raz this is where the cyber crime
business model takes a page from the
software as a service SAS Playbook
ransomware as a service is a
cybercriminal service that allows
individuals with little to no technical
expertise to launch ransomware attacks
in essence it turns ransomware into a
commodity that anyone can access much
like how SAS platforms provide software
tools to businesses Raz providers offer
a package that includes ransomware
software a dashboard for monitoring and
managing attacks and sometimes even
customer
support this lowers the barrier to entry
for aspiring cyber criminals enabling
them to carry out attacks without the
need for extensive technical knowledge
but where did these budding cyber
criminals go to purchase these
services enter the dark web
Marketplace the dark web is a hidden
part of the internet that you can't
access using regular search engines like
Google you can think of the dark web
Marketplace like an underground online
store it's often used for illegal
activities because it offers a high
level of
anonymity cyber criminals can buy and
sell while hacking services in this dark
web Marketplace including ransomware as
a service in this Marketplace cyber
criminals can find different Raz options
each with its own prices and features
and some of these Services even let the
Cyber criminals share the money they get
from the victims with the Raz
providers the proliferation of
ransomware as a service poses
significant risks to individuals and
organizations how easy it is to access
means that more and more cyber criminals
can participate in ransomware attacks
leading to a surge in such
incidents the consequences of ransomware
attacks can be devastating victims may
lose access to critical data suffer
Financial losses and face reputational
damage furthermore paying the ransom
doesn't guarantee that you'll regain
access to your data as cyber criminals
may not provide decryption keys or may
demand additional payments now that you
understand the threats posed by access
Brokers and ransomware as a service it's
crucial to discuss how individuals and
organizations can protect
themselves it's essential to adopt a
multifaceted approach to safeguard
against ransomware attacks first you
should maintain regular up-to-date data
backups either on offline storage or the
cloud this ensures that even if your
data is encrypted you can restore it
without paying a ransom second investing
in robust antivirus and anti-malware
Solutions can help you detect and block
ransomware attacks equally crucial is
the education of
employees employees should be educated
about fishing scams and the importance
of not clicking on suspicious links or
downloading unknown attachments fourth
software and operating systems should be
kept up todate to patch known
vulnerabilities that cyber criminals May
exploit and lastly you should always
have a comprehensive incident response
plan in place not only does this
minimize the repercussions of an attack
but it also ensures a more streamlined
recovery process in summary access
Brokers and ransomware as a service have
changed the cyber crime landscape by
understanding both Concepts and taking
proactive measures you can better
protect your digital assets and maintain
the Integrity of your data in today's
world identity theft Hardware
vulnerabilities and email related
threats are prominent concerns for
individuals and organizations alike in
this video you will explore various
mitigation strategies for these security
challenges some holistic mitigation
strategies for General Security concerns
will also be discussed let's start with
identity theft mitigation identity theft
poses a significant risk and mitigating
this threat requires a well-rounded
approach such an approach could be
comprised of the following measures
first you should Implement multifactor
Authentication or MFA for added
security MFA requires multiple forms of
identification like a password token or
fingerprint for access second you need
to have robust password management
strong unique passwords should be used
and changed regularly you can use a
password manager to keep track of
passwords which will also help with
Secure Storage and password
generation third you should employ
access restriction using role-based
access control or arbac reduces the risk
of unauthorized access fourth is
biometric
authentication biometric methods like
fingerprint or facial recognition can be
used for heightened Security in critical
systems while securing personal identity
is important it's also critical to
ensure the physical devices used every
day are free from
vulnerabilities to address Hardware
vulnerabilities effectively you can
consider the following
measures keep an updated list of all
company Hardware including device
details operating systems and
software use tools to track Hardware
performance and Report anomalies in real
time employ reliable antivirus software
update definitions and consider consider
endpoint detection and response EDR for
advanced threat detection and stay alert
to Firmware updates for all Hardware
components including routers switches
and Internet of Things devices to
prevent vulnerability
exploitation email is another frequent
Vector of cyber threats that requires
attention here's how to mitigate email
related threats
comprehensively block known malicious
email sources like addresses domains and
IP addresses you should also prioritize
trusted email sources for inbox delivery
and use Advanced filters to spot and
quarantine suspicious emails you can
also deploy sender policy framework or
SPF records to verify sender domain
authenticity and you can Implement
domain-based message authentication
reporting and conformance or DeMark for
added email sender authentication and
domain spoofing prevention like with
most cyber security issues user training
is also important employees should
continuously be educated on email
security emphasizing caution with links
and attachments and sensitive emails
should be secured for authorized
recipient access with encryption you can
do this with protocols like secure multi
purpose internet mail extensions or
esime or the pretty good privacy or pgp
encryption
program lastly simulations should
regularly be used to assess employee
response to fishing
attempts but cyber security is about
more than just securing email
Communications and mitigating Associated
threats the digital landscape is vast
and attackers use a variety of entry
points and tactics in addition to the
mitigation approaches already discussed
consider these comprehensive mitigation
strategies first encryption techniques
such as TLS for data in transit and full
disk encryption for data at rest or
vital they ensure data remains
unreadable especially in instances of
unauthorized access second regular
software and firmware updates
facilitated by a Rob robust patch
management system are necessary patches
should be tested before deployment to
head off potential issues next employees
should be educated on security best
practices social engineering tactics and
cyber security awareness organizations
can conduct security training sessions
fishing simulations and provide
resources for ongoing learning
additionally an incident response plan
should be in place to swiftly and
effectively address security breaches
such plans should outline identification
containment mitigation and Recovery
procedures it's also necessary to assess
the security practices of third-party
vendors and partners to ensure alignment
with an organization's
standards organizations can conduct due
diligence reviews establish security
focused contractual agreements
and monitor
compliance furthermore ensuring data
longevity and integrity often hinges on
regular data backup protocols
complemented by thorough testing of
recovery
processes this minimizes data loss risks
during potential incidents and
emphasizes Secure off-site Storage as a
countermeasure against physical
disasters it's also crucial to implement
Network segment mation to isolate
sensitive data which in turn prevents
lateral Movement by potential hackers
such segmentation uses firewalls and
access controls to enforce segmentation
limiting access to critical areas
endpoint detection and response or EDR
Solutions should also be used to
continuously Monitor and analyze
endpoint activities for signs of
malicious
behavior EDR and enables rapid threat
detection and response including
isolating compromised end points another
measure is web application firewalls are
wafts which should be deployed to
protect web applications from online
threats such as SQL injection and cross
site scripting attacks they should be
configured to filter and block malicious
traffic behavioral analysis tools can
also be used to identify abnormal user
behavior and potential security breaches
for example machine learning and
analytics can detect deviations from
standard patterns aiding in identifying
Insider threats and sophisticated
attacks and Red Team exercises can be
used to simulate real world attacks and
uncover vulnerabilities before malicious
actors can exploit them lastly you
should ensure secure network
communications with VP VNS particularly
for remote
workforces vpns offer secure and private
access to corporate resources over
untrusted networks by implementing these
holistic strategies you can
substantially reduce the risks
associated with identity theft Hardware
vulnerabilities email related threats
and more General Security
concerns it's essential to remember that
cyber security is an ongoing endeavor
necessitating continuous vigilance and
adaptation to emerging threats you need
to stay informed and proactive to
safeguard your organization's valuable
assets
effectively data security is pivotal for
the growth and success of
organizations neglecting security can
lead to data breaches and loss of
reputation while prioritizing it
instills customer trust and
satisfaction this video is about defense
in depth a concept that informs Azure
Cloud
security much like the zero trust model
defense in depth assumes that not all
threats can be prevented for this reason
it has multiple layers of Defense if one
layer is breached other layers are there
to provide protection defense in depth
relies on three fundamental principles
the first principle is
confidentiality to ensure authorized
access security teams must verify that
only those explicitly granted permission
can access the protected surface and the
potentially sensitive data it contains
the second principle is integrity this
involves creating a unique data
fingerprint using one-way hashing
algorithms during
transmission recipients can use this
hash to verify data
consistency ensuring data Integrity
throughout the process the third
principle is
availability data must be accessible to
authorized users at all times preventing
denial of service attacks is a critical
aspect of this
principle now let's explore the seven
critical layers of the defense in depth
approach in the context of azure Cloud
Security First the the outermost layer
regulates physical access to azure's
data centers it incorporates stringent
access controls biometric authentication
and continuous surveillance to deter
unauthorized
access the second layer focuses on
protecting data applications and
software through identity and access
Management
Solutions features like multiactor
authen ication and event auditing play a
vital role in safeguarding user
credentials the third layer often called
the perimeter guards against network
based attacks it deploys dos protection
and firewalls to identify and mitigate
threats the fourth layer restricts
network connectivity it allows only
essential communication between
resources for example Azure virtual
networks provide isolation and security
controls preventing malware
transmission the fifth layer is about
the security of computing resources and
offers confidential Computing
Services users should minimize security
risks maintain Regulatory Compliance and
prevent untrustworthy
collaborations in the sixth layer the
focus is on reducing risks and vulner
abilities associated with the
development life cycle of
applications for example security
features are integrated into application
development and confidential information
must be securely
stored the innermost layer safeguards
data stored in various
forms these seven layers serve as the
building blocks for safeguarding
networks so let's examine how they apply
in the cont context of azure virtual
networks and other techniques for
Network
segmentation Azure virtual networks
enable you to segment a network into
subnets and enforce network security
policies there are also several Advanced
Techniques that you can use to segment a
network in Azure these include using
network security groups nsgs to filter
traffic between subnets and resources
and implementing the Azure firewall a
cloud native firewall that provides
centralized protection for Azure
resources the Azure application Gateway
can also be used it's a load balancer
that can also perform web application
firewall functions and last is the Azure
virtual Wan a networking service that
enables you to connect and manage your
on premises Azure and other Cloud
networks these Network segmentation
techniques pave the way for improved
threat detection strategies to identify
and respond to potential security
breaches Microsoft Defender for cloud
and Microsoft Sentinel provide some
features for threat
detection these include security alerts
that notify you of potential threats and
vulnerabilities once threats are
identified you have to consider ways to
fortify your defenses and mitigate risks
effectively for example just in time VM
access which allows you to restrict
access to VMS to specific times and
users an Adaptive application controls
which use machine learning to Monitor
and block malicious applications you can
also use network security appliances
such as firewalls and intrusion
detection systems to protect your Azure
Network however it is important to note
that Microsoft Defender for cloud
provides many of the same features as
network security
appliances maintaining high security
standards is an ongoing
commitment best practices include
implementing the zero trust model and
defense in-depth approach training
employees on security best practices and
keeping software up toate in conclusion
your exploration of Defense in-depth
principles its layered approach and its
practical application has revealed the
importance of a comprehensive security
strategy by combining the principles of
confidentiality integrity and
availability with the seven layers of
Defense organizations can fortify their
defenses and maintain high security
standards Cloud platforms like Azure
have become integral to Modern business
operations making security a top
priority in this video you will explore
the steps of the defense in-depth
approach to protect your Cloud
infrastructure you will specifically
learn how you can do so by using various
components of azure network security
let's start with the defense steps the
first step is to comprehensively assess
your assets so you have a clear
understanding of what you're
protecting this is an essential step in
establishing an effective defense
strategy assets Encompass a wide range
of digital resources including sensitive
data critical applications and virtual
machines by identifying and cataloging
your assets you can clearly understand
what you need to
protect this foundational step helps you
prioritize your security efforts
ensuring that your most valuable assets
receive the highest level of protection
once you've identified your assets the
next step is to identify potential
threats and vulnerabilities knowing what
you're up against is essential threats
in the digital landscape can range from
sophisticated cyber attacks to
Accidental data breaches vulnerabilities
may stem from factors like unpatched
software misconfigured security settings
are human errors recognizing the full
spectrum of threats and vulnerabilities
allows you to address them in your
defense strategy
proactively lastly establishing security
policies is a Cornerstone of effective
defense measures security policies serve
as a set of clear guidelines and
practices that all stakeholders within
an organization must adhere to these
policies help ensure consistency in your
security measures reducing the risk of
oversight in safeguarding assets
well-defined policies cover aspects such
as Access Control Data encryption
incident response and employee training
all of which contribute to a robust
security posture to defend your Cloud
infrastructure effectively you must
develop a layered approach to security
let's explore how to create these layers
using Azure
components network security groups
firewalls and other tools form the
outermost layers of an in-depth defense
strategy you can establish strong
perimeter security by configuring
security groups and firewalls within
Azure these tools are critical in
controlling inbound and outbound traffic
ensuring only authorized
access this means you can prevent
unauthorized access and potential
threats from reaching critical assets
next Azure virtual networks provide a
solid foundation for implementing
in-depth defense within the Azure
ecosystem they enable you to segment
your network into subnets and enforce
network security policies at a granular
level this segmentation helps isolate
different parts of a network limiting
lateral movement for potential
hackers Additionally you can use
Microsoft Defender for cloud to monitor
a network for threats and
vulnerabilities it provides real-time
Protection security alerts and threat
intelligence to enhance an
organization's security posture to enhan
security layers further you can employ
Advanced Network segmentation techniques
Azure offers a suite of tools including
network security groups Azure firewall
Azure application Gateway and Azure
virtual Wan these tools provide granular
control over Network traffic and
security policies allowing you to tailor
your defenses to specific needs and
threats you shouldn't forget about
threat detection as it is integral to a
layered approach Azure provides robust
threat detection capabilities through
services like Microsoft Defender for
cloud and Microsoft
Sentinel these services offer a range of
features like security alerts just in
time VM access and adaptive application
controls lastly to add an extra layer of
protection to your Azure Network you
should consider using network security
appliances like firewalls and intrusion
detection
systems these appliances are
specifically designed to Monitor and
Safeguard Network traffic by detecting
anomalies and blocking potential
threats it's important to note that
Microsoft Defender for cloud provides
many of the same features offering a
comprehensive security solution for any
Azure Network in addition to the
aformentioned defense measures regular
security Audits and penetration testing
are ESS ential components of a proactive
security strategy you can use Microsoft
Defender for cloud and Microsoft
Sentinel to help you implement them
conducting periodic security audits
helps identify vulnerabilities and
weaknesses in your systems and
processes penetration testing on the
other hand involves simulating real
world attacks to evaluate the
effectiveness of your security controls
by routinely performing these
assessments ments you can proactively
address emerging threats and
continuously improve your security
posture in conclusion Defending Your
Cloud infrastructure requires a
combination of defined defense steps and
a layered approach to
security by implementing the defense in
depth strategy using Azure components
you can ensure the confidentiality
integrity and availability of your data
like consistently assessing assets
identifying threats and vulnerabilities
and establishing security policies you
can lay the foundation for a robust
security posture and utilizing azure's
powerful security tools further enhances
the protection of your organization's
digital
assets by now you have a good
understanding of the defense in depth
strategy now it's time to explore how it
informs the process of securing an Azure
EnV environment this includes
understanding potential threats
implementing security controls and
effectively monitoring and responding to
security incidents conducting an
extensive risk assessment to identify
potential vulnerabilities and risks in
your Azure environment is crucial as
discussed in previous courses Azure
offers a vast array of services and
capabilities to help you do this but
what are some of the common risks in
aure let's investigate some of them
first up our data security risks data
security is not just about encryption it
extends to Access Control Data
classification and
compliance data breaches can lead to
severe consequences and Azure provides
tools to prevent unauthorized access to
sensitive information there are Advanced
Data protection strategies to handle
these risks such as Azure confidential
Computing and Azure information
protection these strategies go beyond
basic encryption to protect data in
transit and at rest next are identity
and access risks Advanced identity and
access management in Azure involves
using identity governance privileged
identity management or Pim and Azure
conditional access to fine-tune user
access controls you also have options
like identity Federation and single sign
on or SSO configurations to safeguard
against unauthorized access and identity
related
threats last are compliance risks
achieving and maintaining compliance in
Azure is an intricate process you can
use Azure policy initiatives and custom
policies to enforce specific compliance
requirements unique to the relevant
industry you're working in compliance is
not just a legal requirement but also a
critical aspect of maintaining trust
with customers and
partners with a good understanding of
risks let's turn to potential threats to
your Azure environment first are two
threats you are very familiar with
malware and viruses in-depth threat
protection strategies involve
implementing Microsoft Defender for
point you can also integrate Microsoft
Defender for internet of things to
protect against vulnerabilities in
Connected devices within your Azure
environment these Services provide
Advanced threat intelligent feeds and
realtime threat detection
mechanisms another type of threat to
keep in mind are fishing attacks fishing
attacks often Target user identities
making robust ID identity protection
crucial for advanced protection against
these you should use Azure identity
protection and Implement multiactor
authentication with conditional access
policies and anomaly detection and
machine learning techniques can help
identify unusual user
Behavior last are DOs attacks dos
attacks can disrupt Azure services and
having mitigation strategy IES in place
is vital for maintaining service
availability Advanced dos protection
includes configuring custom protection
policies by implementing Azure front
door and Azure content delivery Network
or CDN for traffic
management you should also use Azure
application Gateway for advanced
application Level dos attack mitigation
now let's examine how to implement a
Advanced security controls in Azure
first you can use Azure firewalls in
addition to basic firewall
configurations you can also apply threat
intelligence-based rules like
application rules for layer 7
filtering and you can use the Azure
firewall manager to manage multiple
Azure firewall instances secondly you
can use Advanced network security groups
or NSG configurations to implement
outbound security rules and service tags
thirdly using application security
groups or
asgs can help simplify Network Security
Management for complex
architectures fourth is Microsoft
Defender for cloud a central component
of azure security Arsenal it offers
Advanced threat protection strategies
like customizing threat detection
policies and leveraging Advanced
analytics and machine learning you can
also incorporate the Sim and sore
functions of Microsoft Sentinel with
Defender for cloud this integration
provides comprehensive security
monitoring and incident response
capabilities sixth are threat detection
Solutions detecting threats early and
effectively is essential for minimizing
potential damage and responding
proactively these Solutions include
using the aformentioned Sim integration
as well as Behavior analytics and threat
intelligence platforms for enhanced
security
insights however implementing security
controls is only part of an in-depth
defense strategy continuous monitoring
rapid response to security incidents and
automation are also
necessary first Advanced monitoring
involves creating custom log queries at
and alert rules as well as using Azure
monitor workbooks for Advanced Data
visualization and integrating Microsoft
Defender for cloud with log analytics
for a holistic view of security threats
second Advanced incident response
planning emphasizes threat hunting
automated incident response workflows
using Azure logic apps and orchestrating
advanced playbooks with Microsoft
Sentinel third at Advanced automation
with azzure functions includes
developing custom scripts and workflows
to automate complex security tasks it
also involves orchestrating incident
response across multiple services and
utilizing Azure devops for automated
security policy enforcement in summary
securing your Azure environment is a
multifaceted process that involves
identifying risks implementing security
controls and monitoring and responding
to security incidents following these
best practices can fortify your Azure
Network against evolving security
threats in today's digital landscape
identity and access management are vital
in securing an organization's resources
and data Azure active directory plays a
central role in modern authentication
offering robust features and
capabilities to ensure that only
authorized users gain access to a system
you have a good understanding of azure
ad by this point in the program so this
video will go beyond the
basics the focus will be on
authentication from a design and
Architectural perspective let's get
started by exploring modern approaches
to authentication and the pivotal role
Azure ad plays in this domain in modern
authentication identity verification is
at the heart of system design
it determines who has access to your
organization's resources and data one of
the key players in this process is the
identity provider or IDP an entity
responsible for managing and verifying
the identity of users as a cloud-based
IDP Azure ad plays a central role in
modern
authentication it acts as a trust broker
enabling secure interactions between
your applications and the users or
devices trying to access them Beyond
merely verifying the identity of users
the identity provider has additional
responsibilities Central to Modern
authentication these include not only
authentication but also authorization
and auditing which you learned about
earlier in the lesson from an
architectural perspective you should
consider how authentication methods
integrate with applications
ensure that authorization aligns with
your organization's specific
requirements and reflect on how you can
structure your auditing framework to
capture and use information for
compliance security and
troubleshooting now let's focus on
Federation and single signon or SSO two
essential components that streamline
user access to resources across domains
Federation is a fundamental Concept in
modern
authentication enabling a single set of
credentials to access multiple services
and systems from an architectural
perspective you have to consider
Federation principles like trust
security tokens and relying parties to
ensure secure trust establishment and
token Exchange in a system you should
consider integrating external identity
providers with Azure ad using token
handling mechanisms and implementing
user and group synchronization single
signon offers a seamless user experience
which you've previously explored Azure
ad serves as a robust SSO solution you
have to ensure you understand how to
structure application integration user
experience and security and compliance
aspects when implementing SSO using
Azure ad architecture Al it's also
essential to be aware that there are
different SSO design patterns your
architectural decisions should align
with the specific needs of your
applications and services you can use
web-based SSO mobile app SSO and
integration with on premises
applications to achieve this
alignment when structuring your SSO
solution you should pay particular
attention to token management session
control and security protocols to
balance security and usability
effectively to understand the Practical
implications of SSO and Federation let's
explore a real world scenario you may
encounter imagine you work for an
organization with diverse
applications these include cloud-based
SAS applications on premises Legacy
applications and applications that need
to be accessed by external Partners
users demand a seamless SSO
experience and security remains a top
priority in this scenario you have to
consider the various SSO options and
Architectural decisions you need to make
to provide a robust and secure
authentication
solution for example you should enable
SSO for cloud applications using Azure
ad integrate SSO with on premises
applications by leveraging Azure ad and
Federation and support external
collaboration by using Azure ad B2B and
b2c to provide secure and userfriendly
access now let's move on to consider the
architectural aspects of three other
critical components of an organization's
identity and access management strategy
within Azure ad when it comes to
conditional access you should ensure
that your policies align with your
organization's security and compliance
requirements with multifactor
authentication you should consider the
factors verification methods and
application integration to ensure a
secure and userfriendly MFA
experience Additionally you should
structure a comprehensive identity
production strategy it could combine
features like conditional access MFA and
identity risk policy to safeguard your
organization's resources and data as the
field of authentication evolves you have
to keep up with new developments for
example you should consider the
architectural implications of emerging
Technologies like passwordless
authentication and zero trust
architecture you should also structure
your authentication Solutions with Azure
ad B2B and b2c ensuring that you cater
to diverse user bases in conclusion this
video focused on the architectural
aspects of modern authentication with
Azure active directory when designing
and architecting authentication
Solutions you should remember that
security and user experience go hand
inand the knowledge and best practices
shared in this video will help you build
secure userfriendly authentication
systems that stand the test of time in
recent Rec years the security landscape
has undergone a seismic shift
perimeter-based security models once the
Cornerstone of Enterprise security have
become obsolete with the proliferation
of digital devices and an increasingly
remote Workforce traditional security
measures have proven
ineffective modern identity security
recognizes that the perimeter has
expanded far beyond the confines of a
physical office employees are connecting
to corporate resources from a multitude
of devices and locations presenting a
complex challenge how to ensure that the
right people have secure access to the
right data regardless of their physical
location in this video you will explore
the complex world of identity mitigation
strategy building on your foundation in
security fundamentals you will discover
how modern identity security measures
move Beyond traditional perimeter models
and you will learn how identity
infrastructure mitigates the risks
associated with the proliferation of
devices and log on
locations at its core Modern identity
security is about verifying and managing
the identities of users devices and
applications within an organization it
transcends the simplistic dichotomy of
inside versus outside the network in the
modern context every user and every
device is potentially both inside and
outside depending on the
circumstances before moving on let's
discuss what drove the transition away
from traditional perimeter-based
security models traditional security
models relied on strong perimeter
defenses such as firewalls IDs and IPS
to protect corporate resources from
external threats however these models
are ill equipped to defend against
today's sophisticated
adversaries attackers are constantly
evolving their tactics and the perimeter
models rigid boundaries are insufficient
to protect against Insider threats
fishing attacks and other emerging
threats the Paradigm Shift towards
identity Centric security emphasizes
that security should revolve around the
users and devices themselves elves not
just the network perimeter this approach
enables more granular control and
adaptive security measures to address
this new reality identity infrastructure
is
Paramount identity infrastructure is the
backbone of modern security providing
the foundation for managing access
rights authentication and
authorization this infrastructure
extends Beyond user identities to
encompass devices applications and even
iot devices of course identity Centric
security comes with its own risks let's
now focus on the risks associated with
the proliferation of devices and login
locations first the number and diversity
of devices used to access corporate
resources have
skyrocketed employees use smartphones
tablets laptops and even iot devices to
connect to corporate networks
introducing a myriad of potential
vulnerabilities second users are no
longer Tethered to a single physical
location they may log in from their
office home a coffee shop or even a
foreign country securing these login
locations is a complex task that
requires adaptive authentication and
authorization
mechanisms having outlined the
challenges let's move on to the the
security measures required to mitigate
these identity related risks first is
MFA a fundamental security measure that
requires users to provide multiple forms
of verification such as a password
fingerprint or smart card to
authenticate themselves MFA
significantly enhances the security of
user identities by making it more
difficult for attackers to compromise
accounts next is arbac which allows
organizations to assign permissions
based on job roles ensuring that users
have access only to the resources
necessary for their work and lastly
adaptive security is all about
continuous monitoring and behavioral
analytics by detecting anomalies and
user behavior and reacting in real time
adaptive security can escalate security
measures or prompt additional
verification to mitigate risk risks in
conclusion modern identity security has
become an imperative in the face of
evolving threats resulting from
proliferation of devices and log on
locations by moving away from
traditional perimeter models and
embracing an identity Centric approach
organizations can effectively mitigate
risks and secure access to data and
resources it's more than likely that you
are familiar with the ship shared
responsibility model it is the cloud
computing security framework where
providers and clients collaborate to
secure data and infrastructure with each
having distinct responsibilities Azure
security is based on this model where
Microsoft safeguards the underlying
infrastructure while you secure your
applications and data within
Azure in this video you will cover
azure's comprehensive set of tools and
services that help protect your
applications data and infrastructure in
the cloud you will also cover the
benefits of and best practices for
mitigating security threats on
Azure but first let's cover the three
critical aspects that shape how
Microsoft meets its security
responsibilities first is physical
security this involves measures like
biometric access controls and
surveillance systems to protect data
centers from unauthorized physical
access second is data center access
controls Microsoft enforces strict
authentication and authorization
mechanisms to control who can access
data centers and their
resources and last is hypervisor
security Microsoft continuously monitors
and patches hypervisors to maintain the
Integrity of the virtualization layer
next let's delve into Microsoft Defender
for cloud one of Microsoft's most
prominent services that addresses these
security
aspects Microsoft Defender for cloud is
an advanced Cloud native security
service that provides continuous
monitoring and threat protection for
your Azure resources starting with
Advanced security analytics Defender for
cloud employ sophisticated algorithms to
analyze vast amounts of telemetry data
identifying anomalies and patterns that
might indicate security issues this
allows for early detection of potential
threats before they
escalate next is machine learning driven
threat
detection with machine learning models
it can recognize unusual behavior in
your Azure environment and distinguish
between legitimate and malicious activi
this reduces false positives and
increases the accuracy of threat
detection Defender for cloud also
provides detailed security
recommendations tailored to your
specific Azure environment these
recommendations are aimed at identifying
potential issues and include actionable
guidance and how to remediate them
effectively let's explore three more
functionalities of Defender for cloud
first is Advanced compliance assessments
Defender conducts rigorous assessments
of your Azure Resources with various
security standards and regulations such
as gdpr Hippa and Industry specific
compliance Frameworks in mind it goes
beyond mere checkboxes providing
detailed insights into your compliance
posture and suggesting specific actions
for
alignment next is customizable security
policies Defender for cloud allows you
to Define and enforce your security
policies providing the flexibility to
adapt to specific compliance
requirements within your organization or
industry and last is diverse security
reports Defender offers a wide range of
security reports that provide detailed
insights into your security posture
Regulatory Compliance and threat
activities these reports serve as a
record of your security history and Aid
in making informed decisions to improve
your
security Azure security encompasses
various other tools and services
proactively mitigating security threats
with these Azure tools yields numerous
advantages including Azure information
protection or AIP ensures comprehensive
classification and data labeling
ensuring that sensitive information is
handled
appropriately Azure dis encryption
provides full disk encryption thus
safeguarding data even in the event of
physical disk theft Azure policy Azure
Blueprints and Defender for cloud
provide a robust framework for
compliance they offer predefined
policies and recommendations to assist
organizations in aligning with various
regulatory standards such as gdpr and
Hippa and lastly Azure key vault is an
essential tool for managing and
safeguarding cryptographic keys and
secrets thereby ensuring the
confidentiality and integrity of
sensitive information by now it should
be clear that Azure provides a powerful
arsenal of tools and services however it
is your responsibility to harness them
effectively to fortify your Cloud
environment next let's explore best
practices for mitigating security
threats on Azure first it's essential to
implement a robust identity and access
management or IM am strategy within
Azure active directory this includes
fine-tuning conditional access policies
to limit access to Azure resources based
on user identity device and
location you should also leverage
privileged identity management or Pim
for privileged roles furthermore you
should embrace role-based Access Control
are are back to Grant permissions
exclusively to authorized users and
roles best practices specifically for
network security include employing
network security groups or nsgs to
manage inbound and outbound traffic for
your Azure resources second you should
Implement Azure firewall to protect
Azure virtual networks from unauthorized
access and third you should utilize
secure connections via virtual Network
gateways to link Azure virtual networks
with on premises networks and other
Cloud providers there are also best
practices for protecting data such as
ensuring encryption for all data at rest
and in transit you can do this through
Azure disk encryption Azure storage
service encryption and Azure SQL
database transparent data encryption or
TDE safeguarding cryp ctog graphic keys
and secrets with Azure key vault is also
Paramount lastly let's talk about best
practices for threat detection and
monitoring you should use Advanced
threat detection tools like Defender for
cloud as your monitor and Microsoft
Sentinel to identify and respond to
realtime threats promptly it's also
essential to configure these tools to
generate alerts for suspicious activity
in conclusion Azure security is
multifaceted and dynamic it is crucial
for ensuring the protection and
integrity of your applications data and
infrastructure in the cloud by embracing
the shared responsibility model and
implementing these Advanced security
practices you can bolster your
organization's defenses in the Azure
environment in Azure there are two
essential aspects of securing your Cloud
environment and resources
Network protection and data protection
these two aspects serve different
purposes and focus on different areas of
security network protection focuses on
securing the infrastructure and
communication channels within Azure
while data protection focuses on
safeguarding the data stored and
processed by your Azure resources both
aspects are critical components of a
comprehensive Azure security strategy
and and they work together to provide a
strong defense against various security
threats and vulnerabilities in this
video you will learn about the various
network security features available in
Azure get ready for a journey that will
take you beyond your foundational
understanding of features covered in
earlier courses such as Azure virtual
networks nsgs and
firewalls you'll now discover how these
components work together to provide
Advan aned network security within the
Azure ecosystem but before exploring the
tools let's talk about the golden rule
that should guide all implementation of
network security features in Azure the
principle of least privilege in other
words when configuring these network
security features only Grant the minimum
necessary access to resources now let's
examine the Myriad of tools and services
Azure offers to safeguarding your
network
infrastructure first is the built-in dos
protection that safeguards your
applications and resources from
distributed denial of service
attacks you can fine-tune dos protection
plans customize alert thresholds and
monitor traffic patterns to adapt
defenses dynamically next is azure
Bastion which offers secure and seamless
RDP and S H access to your virtual
machines in the Azure portal you can
configure multiactor authentication and
customize policies for Bastion to ensure
even higher security another network
security feature is the Azure
application Gateway which provides layer
7 load balancing and web application
firewall
capabilities moreover you can create
custom WAFF policies integrate with
azure your Sentinel for advanced threat
detection and optimized traffic
management there is also Azure private
link which allows you to access Azure
Services privately over a private
network
connection you can also Implement
private end points which ensure that
data never traverses the public internet
and remains within the Microsoft network
next up you can use network security
groups to control control inbound and
outbound traffic to your Azure
resources more specifically you should
prioritize rule order leverage service
tags and use application security groups
for more granular
control another essential tool to
implement is azure firewall for a
centralized fully stateful and highly
available firewall service you can
fine-tune threat intelligence configure
custom DN s settings and integrate with
Azure monitor for extensive logging
moving on you have Microsoft Defender
for cloud at your disposal which offers
Advanced threat protection for all your
Azure resources it allows you to
configure adaptive application controls
and just in time access to enhance your
security posture and then there is azure
policy a powerful tool for enforcing
compliance requirements and security
configur ations across your Azure
resources you can create custom policy
definitions and initiatives ensuring
that resources remain continuously
aligned with organizational
standards this is crucial for
maintaining a consistent and secure
environment especially in complex and
dynamic Cloud
infrastructures let's move on to two
more Azure services that offer
protection for your network Azure
express route is establishes a dedicated
private connection between your on
premises Network and Azure data centers
it significantly enhances Network
performance reduces latency and
strengthens security by bypassing the
public internet express route is an
ideal choice for organizations with
highspeed low latency and secure
connectivity requirements the other
service is azure VPN Gateway a critical
component for creating secure VPN
tunnels between your on premises Network
and Azure you can fine-tune VPN
configurations Implement High
availability designs and leverage
Advanced encryption options this will
ensure the confidentiality and integrity
of data transmitted between on premises
and Azure
resources but these defenses are not
enough you can't Implement effective
network security security without
Vigilant monitoring Azure Monitor and
log analytics play a crucial role in
collecting and analyzing network
security logs to identify potential
threats and
anomalies Advanced users can create
custom alerts set up intelligent log
queries and utilize Advanced features
like log analytics workbooks for
in-depth analysis this proactive
approach is essential for identify Ing
and responding to potential security
incidents in real time Azure Network
Watcher is another valuable tool for
monitoring and troubleshooting Network
traffic in your Azure
environment you can take advantage of
features such as next hop analysis to
determine the next Network hop for a
given packet packet capture for in-depth
Network traffic analysis and network
performance monitoring to ensure optimal
Network performance and
reliability and lastly Microsoft
Sentinel is a Sim and sore solution that
you can leverage to detect investigate
and respond to threats swiftly this
robust tool integrates with Azure
services and external Security Solutions
providing a holistic view of security
across your Azure environment custom
playbooks and Automation in Sentinel
help streamline instant response
enhancing overall security
in this video you learned that Azure
provides a comprehensive Suite of tools
and services designed to fortify your
network infrastructure Guided by the
principle of least privilege you can
employ a combination of azure features
and Microsoft solutions to create a
secure resilient and optimized
environment so far you've learned Azure
offers Advanced Network protection with
various services and tools but what
about protecting the actual data in a
cloud environment remember Network
protection focuses on securing the
infrastructure and traffic flow within a
cloud environment on the other hand data
protection involves safeguarding the
data stored and
transmitted in this video you'll
discover how Azure safeguards the
confidentiality and integrity of the
data itself you will also cover how to
implement best practices and develop
effective data protection
strategies let's start by establishing a
solid foundation in the world of cloud
computing data security is not merely an
option it's a necessity data security is
primarily about making sure customers
trust that you will safeguard their data
think about it a data breach can lead to
catastrophic consequences including the
erosion of trust legal repercussions and
substantial Financial losses
weak data security can open the gateway
to unauthorized access and violations of
regulatory requirements such lapses can
tarnish an organization's reputation
disrupt critical business operations and
result in Hefty Financial
penalties Azure offers a sophisticated
arsenal of data security features each
designed to serve a specific purpose to
build a secure Azure environment
it's imperative to acquaint yourself
with these
features let's start with encryption the
Lynch pin of data security transforming
data into an impenetrable Fortress
against unauthorized access aure
provides a spectrum of encryption
methods including transparent data
encryption or TDE bit locker and Azure
disk
encryption next is authentication which
Acts as a gatekeeper ensuring that only
authorized users and systems gain access
to your data aure active directory or
Azure ad plays a pivotal role in this
process authenticating users and
services with
Precision the third element of data
security is authorization which defines
the boundaries of what users or systems
can do with your data arbac and Azure
policy are your trusted allies in
establishing these
boundaries and the last element of data
security is access control which
enforces gatekeeping Access Control
mechanisms such as Azure key Vault
enforce gatekeeping by managing access
to Secrets keys and certificates it
forms an indispensable part of
fortifying sensitive data by now you
covered the importance of data security
and the four ways in which Azure ensure
it but configuring data security on
azzure requires a disciplined approach
grounded in best practices and guided by
effective strategies in other words what
can organizations do to safeguard data
in Azure let's start with data
classification and labeling a best
practice is to start by meticulously
classifying data based on its
sensitivity and then applying suitable
labels this foundational step allows you
to tailor your security measures to the
specific requirements of each data
category the next crucial strategy is
effective identity and access management
enforcing unyielding authentication
methods such as MFA build a formidable
first line of defense against
unauthorized access you shouldn't
underestimate the power of strong
identity and access management policies
you can harness policies to dictate who
can access your your data and prescribe
their allowable actions moreover arbac
forms the boundaries of configuring
access rules based on job roles you
should Grant permissions judiciously
adhering to the principle of least
privilege and then there is the crucial
practice of regular auditing and
monitoring continuous vigilance is the
key to preempting threats regular
auditing and monitoring operations are
your Vigilant Guardians helping identify
anomalies and potential security
breaches and don't forget about a threat
detection and response strategy with
Defender for cloud Azure Monitor and
Microsoft Sentinel you can Implement
Advanced threat detection and response
mechanisms these tools employ
cuttingedge analytics and machine
learning to identify suspicious
activities and respond in real time but
what about encryption you can leverage
azure's integrated encryption mechanisms
to protect your data whether at rest or
in transit for instance to construct a
comprehensive encryption strategy
incorporate Azure key Vault you can use
it to manage keys and certificates
efficiently simplifying the process of
key
rotation another key practice is patch
management you should keep your Azure
resources and virtual machines fortified
with the latest security patches because
staying current is an important practice
that guards against
vulnerabilities and last but not least
is the issue of disaster recovery and
backup It's always important to prepare
robust disaster recovery and backup
strategies you should Champion a robust
data backup and Recovery strategy
including regular backups and off-site
storage to ensure resiliency against
data loss in closing securing data on
Azure transcends compliance check boxes
it's the Bedrock of trust and the
Cornerstone of safeguarding an
organization's reputation and customer
trust knowing the diverse data security
features at your disposal and the
meticulous implementation of best
practices and strategies are the
cornerstones to effective data security
on
Azure imagine the digital landscape as a
sprawling Metropolis teaming with
businesses government offices and
individuals amidst the hustle and bustle
network security stands as the guardian
of our Digital World our superhero is on
a mission to protect the cloud
infrastructure in an era where data
breaches can spell Doom for
organizations a secure infrastructure is
the impenetrable Vault that keeps
communication channels and the traffic
that flows in the network under lock and
key a secure network is also like a
shield protecting organizations from
compliance violations using tools such
as Azure policy and ensuring that they
are able to navigate the Labyrinth of
regulations now picture the digital
Metropolis without power Network
downtime caused by cyber attacks can be
catastrophic a secure network is like a
digital generator that keeps the lights
on it also acts as a reputation guard
protecting organizations from cyber
attacks in a fierce competition for
customers organizations with robust
network security gain a Competitive Edge
but how does network security do all of
this first there is threat
extermination the Azure firewall dos
protection and Microsoft Defender for
cloud stand strong to fend off an array
of digital adversaries malware fishing
attacks dos threats and ransomware these
villains don't stand a chance our hero
also wields specialized tools to
safeguard connections to resources in
the cloud with its different Gateway
tools such as VPN Gateway express route
and application Gateway it Shields
communication channels there's also
Access Control ensuring that only
authorized individuals can access access
the network nsgs Bastion and private
link provides even more ways to securely
connect over the network network
security is always ready to LEAP into
action when threats Loom large they are
detected and counter measures are
deployed instantly incidents are
contained and pieces restored which
brings us to threat detection through
monitoring while network security is the
super hero who secures the city
monitoring is like the sidekick keeping
watch here's how this Dynamic dual
operates threat detection uses its
monitoring tools such as Azure Monitor
and log analytics to scan the digital
landscape ever watchful for suspicious
activity threat detection monitoring
also helps organizations promptly
identify and neutralize threats it's
like disarming attackers before they can
strike when trouble Bru our sidekick
doesn't hesitate to sound the alarm
alerting our network security superhero
of approaching trouble allows for Swift
action before it escalates into chaos
and finally monitoring provides
invaluable insights into Network
behavior and
vulnerabilities this information
empowers organizations to fortify their
defenses making future attacks less
likely to succeed
in the vast digital City where
information flows like electricity it's
not just about building taller
skyscrapers or brighter Billboards but
about securing the very foundation on
which these structures stand network
security with its intricate mechanisms
serves as the Guardian superhero and
monitoring acts as its watchful sidekick
together they not only protect the city
but also ensure its inhabitants can go
about their digital lives with
confidence just as a city thrives when
its residents feel safe so does the
digital Metropolis when fortified by
robust security measures ultimately our
digital protectors ensured that progress
never comes at the cost of protection
well done on completing this module
about security conscious modeling you've
covered a lot of ground by following
along you should now be able to identify
ify threat vectors entry points and
prevention methods in cyber
security discuss defense in depth Azure
security and network security you should
also be able to discuss data security
and security
monitoring this video will provide a
recap of what you've covered this way
you can identify what concepts you feel
confident about and which ones you might
want to revisit before attempting the
module quiz in the first part of the
module
you explored the threat landscape
different attack surfaces and threat
vectors if an attack surface such as
email or social media is exploited it
becomes a potential entry point for a
breach a Threat Vector is an Avenue or
method attackers use to exploit an
organization's vulnerabilities and gain
unauthorized access to systems or data
examples include fishing malware Insider
threats zero day exploits supply chain
attacks and advanced persistent
threats next you learned about access
Brokers ransomware as a service or Raz
and the dark web where cyber criminals
buy and sell hacking Services after this
you learned how organizations can fight
against these cyber threats by
implementing holistic strategies
organizations can reduce the risks
associated with identity theft
Hardware vulnerabilities email related
threats and more General Security
concerns next you learned about
antivirus and antimalware you discovered
the difference between signature-based
and behavior-based detection and other
anti-malware software techniques such as
sandboxing signature-based detection
involves removing files or software that
matches malware signatures stored in a
database behavior-based detection
monitors the behavior of programs and
processes for suspicious activities you
went even further and covered Advanced
antivirus and antimalware techniques for
example predictive analysis zero trust
security and threat hunting the next
part was about designing secure networks
with defense in depth or did the did
concept informs Azure Cloud security and
constitutes seven layers physical
security identity and access perimeter
Network compute application and data can
you recall did's three fundamental
principles it is confidentiality
integrity and
availability by combining these
principles with the seven layers of
Defense organizations can fortify their
defenses and maintain high security
standards
after this you explored a defense
in-depth strategy in the context of four
types of threat modeling strategic
operational Technical and
tactical you went on to explore how to
implement the defense in depth model
using various components of azure
network security you learned that a
layered security approach includes Azure
components such as security groups
firewalls virtual Networks
and threat
detection next you worked through the
risks and threats associated with data
identity and access and compliance you
explored potential threats to your Azure
environment such as malware viruses and
dods attacks and how to counter them
recall for instance Advanced ways to
combat identity and access risks include
identity governance Pim and conditional
access knowing the risks sets you up to
optimize a multifaceted defense
strategy after this you covered identity
infrastructure with a focus on the
technical aspects of its four
fundamental pillars Administration
authentication authorization and
auditing you moved on to learn how
identity verification is at the heart of
modern authentication and system design
and the pivotal role Azure a plays in
establishing this you concluded this
section by exploring focused defense in
the context of azure security and the
miter attack Matrix you learned how
organizations can strengthen their
security posture by focusing on the
system assets and
attackers the last part of this module
focused on mitigation strategies in
Azure you learned about the evolving
threats resulting from the proliferation
of devices
and log on locations and different
security measures for identity
mitigation at its core Modern identity
security is about verifying and managing
the identities of users devices and
applications within an
organization you went on to explore the
benefits of and best practices for
mitigating security threats on Azure and
azure's comprehensive set of tools and
services that help protect your applic
ations data and infrastructure in the
cloud Remember by embracing the shared
responsibility model and implementing
Advanced security practices you can
bolster your organization's defenses in
the Azure
environment you now know that in Azure
there are two essential aspects of
securing your Cloud environment and
resources Network protection and data
protection Azure provides a
comprehensive Suite of two tools and
services to fortify your network
infrastructure can you recall the golden
rule that should guide all
implementation of network security
features in Azure that's right the
principle of least privilege in other
words only Grant the minimum necessary
access to
resources moving on you also discovered
how Azure safeguards the confidentiality
and integrity of the data itself in a
cloud environment for instance Azure a
plays a pivotal role in authentication
processes and tools such as TDE bit
locker and Azure disk encryption are
examples of azure encryption methods you
further covered best practices and data
protection strategies for adequate data
security on Azure and finally you
learned that regular auditing and
monitoring Security in Azure is
essential for protecting data and
applications from evolving threats
Microsoft Defender for cloud Azure
Monitor and Microsoft Sentinel provide
comprehensive tools for monitoring and
responding to security threats in Azure
and by working through various real
world applications of these monitoring
services in Azure you should now have a
solid understanding of the role and best
practices of security monitoring in
Azure and that concludes this summary
video of what you've covered about
security conscious modeling and the
various ways to protect your Azure
environment against Network and data
threats and remember don't hesitate to
revisit any material if you feel unsure
about anything good luck with the module
quiz well done on reaching the last
module in this Advanced cyber security
and Capstone course during the course
you explored threat modeling security
conscious design and threat mitigation
strategies you are now well positioned
to complete the Capstone project which
consists of five stages but before
moving on to that let's take a few
minutes to recap what you've learned so
far you began with an introduction to
threat modeling and its three phases
threat modeling is a process for
identifying and addressing security
threats to your applications step one of
threat modeling is decomposing the
application here you learned how to
define
The System Scope by breaking down an
application components and analyzing
their interactions and vulnerabilities
you discovered that decomposing an
application is also about unpacking its
purpose architecture security controls
vulnerabilities external dependencies
entry and exit points assets and Trust
levels step two is determining and
ranking threats based on two essential
factors factors impact and
probability you learned how to use the
stride and Dread models to perform this
step by using stride one can
systematically identify different types
of threats while dread provides a
quantitative approach to assess and
prioritize these threats based on
specific criteria integrating both
Frameworks enhances the overall
effectiveness of threat modeling by
offering a comprehensive analysis of
potential security risks and in step
three determining counter measures and
mitigation you learned how to devise
mitigation strategies for prioritized
threats and Implement
countermeasures considering controls
like access management and
encryption you also got some practical
experience by completing an exercise
where you created a threat model for a
simple web application
you then explored the comprehensive
sans's approach and how it aids in
identifying and assessing threats
establishing an application security
Paradigm and the rationale behind
incorporating security features with a
solid grasp of the sans's approach as a
Cornerstone of security you then went
further and explored various application
security
Frameworks these approaches contribute
to the broader field of cyber security
by providing systematic Frameworks and
tools for understanding assessing and
addressing security threats and
vulnerabilities let's briefly review
these Frameworks first is pasta or
process for attack simulation and thread
analysis a sentinel of risk Centric
threat modeling methodology pasta
encompasses a seven-step process
offering a holistic view by taking into
account the entire ecosystem in which an
application or system operates next is
CVSs the common vulnerability scoring
system a standardized tool set used to
gauge the severity of security
vulnerabilities it provides a
quantitative way to evaluate the impact
of vulnerabilities based on its three
components base temporal and
environmental
metric there is also PNG or the process
for National Security risk management
PNG is a comprehensive standard of
guidelines and best practices for
planning conducting and Reporting
penetration tests last is vast or visual
agile and simple threat modeling a
modern and accessible threat modeling
framework the fundamental principles of
vast are visualizing threats agile
response to threats and simplified
management you also gained practical
experience in threat
analysis recall how you evaluated
threats using the CVSs calculator now
these are great skills for a cyber
security analyst to have moving deeper
into the realm of threat modeling you
explored how it is done for Azure
virtual networks you learned about the
four phases of the security development
life cycle or sdl and how to use it in
combination with the Microsoft threat
modeling
tool the next section of the course was
focused on Advanced threats and
mitigation you discovered different
kinds of susceptible infrastructure such
as Cloud infrastructure web browsers
package repositories and communication
software you also learned about the
miter attack
Matrix this tool offers an in-depth
understanding of adversarial tactics and
techniques serving as a procedural guide
for cyber Security
Professionals following this you
explored various types of malicious
software let's see if you can recall
what you've covered viruses worms Trojan
horses Bots botn Nets and root kits you
also learned about spyware fishing
ransomware adwar and finally key
loggers moving on you covered iot
devices and the risks associated with
them this involved understanding iot
attack prevention strategies and the iot
device
architecture and you use this new found
knowledge to complete and exercise the
last section of the course was all about
security conscious modeling you started
by getting to grips with the threat
landscape attack surfaces and threat
vectors you learned about access Brokers
and the dark web and then covered the
various mitigation strategies and tools
for example antivirus and antimalware
used to combat these
adversaries after this you learned about
the seven layers of Defense in depth or
did and how it informs Azure Cloud
security the layers of did are physical
security identity and access perimeter
Network compute application and data you
learned that the new security perimeter
is identity security and that modern
identity security is all about verifying
and managing the identities of users
devices and applications within an
organization at this point you learned
about the vast array of azure tools and
services focused on network security and
those focused on data security and don't
forget about monitoring in aure you
delved into advanced threat detection
and monitoring tools such as Microsoft
moft Defender for cloud Azure Monitor
and Microsoft
Sentinel through a mix of videos
readings and exercises you have learned
about different approaches to threat
modeling and threat
analysis developed in-depth knowledge
about the cyber security threat
landscape and gained Advanced knowledge
about Azure services and tools for
threat mitigation you've now reached the
end of this recap in the next video you
will get an overview of what the
Capstone entails it will require you to
integrate the Knowledge and Skills
you've gained from this and other
courses after completing the Capstone
project you will complete a final graded
quiz good luck reaching this point in
the cyber security analyst program
demonstrates that you possess the skills
and determination required to
successfully finish the final Capstone
project this video will give you an
overview of what to to expect you will
cover the project brief key requirements
for the proposal and the five stages of
project execution this project tests the
key skills covered throughout this
course and the preceding ones and it is
designed to challenge you to apply your
cyber security Knowledge and Skills to a
real world scenario moreover you will
need to demonstrate your understanding
of technology and its uses you are
tasked with producing a cyber security
proposal for the network and
infrastructure of a small catering and
food equipment Leasing Company the name
of this fictitious company is VIP events
and because it is expanding its
operations it requires a secure it
system to support its growth as a cyber
security expert you will be tasked with
analyzing the security needs of VIP
events and designing a comprehensive
solution that incorporates defense
in-depth principles the zero trust model
and Azure active directory your proposal
should also address testing and
compliance considerations VIP events is
expanding its operations to a new
three-story building and has grown its
Workforce to 21 employees including
equipment handlers chefs office workers
and management the company also employs
transient event Personnel on an as
needed BAS basis your cyber security
proposal must address the access and
identity management needs of all
employee groups ensuring that each user
has isolated access to job related
activities you will also need to take
the hardware requirements into account
that will allow various areas within the
physical premises to connect to the
company Network these include the
loading dock storage areas kitchens
Office Space and conference rooms and
don't forget about devices VIP events
infrastructure includes several fixed
and mobile Business Machines such as
desktops laptops and
tablets now that you have an overview of
what to expect let's inspect the five
stages of the project the first stage
focuses on company
requirements in this stage you will
gather information about business
Operations Security requirements and
user roles of VIP events the next stage
is aad setup in this stage you will
specify the Azure ad tenant structure
advise how to configure user accounts
and the implementation of group-based
access
control stage three is about roles and
access this stage focuses on defining
granular access permissions for all user
groups ensuring that users have the
right level of access to perform their
job
duties stage four revolves around aad
connections here you will advise how to
integrate Azure ad with other possible
business applications and services to
streamline user authentication and
authorization in stage five is policy
implementation in this final stage you
will detail the development and
implementation of security policies to
govern user Behavior data access and
device management you will be guided
through each stage with a reading and a
reflective
self-review after completing all the
stages of the Capstone project you will
work through an Exemplar of a possible
solution this video gave you a bird's
eyee view of the final Capstone project
it's time to move on to the project
which will require you to integrate the
Knowledge and Skills you've gained
during your journey journey in the cyber
security analyst program good luck
you've got this congratulations on
reaching the end of the advanced cyber
security Concepts and Capstone project
course this course has helped you
develop the advanced skill set you need
to excel as a cyber security analyst for
example as an analyst your
responsibilities would involve
performing all the phases of threat
modeling designing infrastructure with a
security cont focus and planning and
implementing threat mitigation
strategies through a mix of videos
readings and exercises you have learned
about different approaches to threat
modeling and threat analysis got
practical experience in developing
threat models and gained Advanced
knowledge about Azure services and tools
for threat
mitigation most importantly you
completed the Capstone project by
developing a cyber security proposal for
for a business by integrating the
knowledge you have gained from this and
previous courses into a standalone
portfolio piece you have demonstrated
your Advanced cyber security
skills the Capstone project also
prepared you for the scenario based
approach you may encounter in the sc900
exam completing this course contributes
towards gaining the cyber security
analyst professional certificate from
corsera this certificate not not only
helps you enhance your skills but also
gain a qualification that can lay the
groundwork for a career as a cyber
security analyst it serves as proof of
your job Readiness and can be shared
with your Professional Network and it
will help you prepare for the exam
sc900 Microsoft security compliance and
identity
fundamentals the program has been
uniquely mapped to key job skills
required in cyber security analyst roles
in each course you are able to
consolidate what you have learned by
completing a course project that
simulates realworld cyber security
scenarios to round off your learning
you'll take a mock exam in the final
course that has been set up in a similar
style to the industry recognized sc900
exam the exam sc900 measures your
ability to describe the following
concepts of security compliance and
identity capabilities of Microsoft entra
capabilities of Microsoft Security
Solutions and capabilities of Microsoft
compliance solutions to complete the
exam you should be familiar with
Microsoft Azure and Microsoft 365 and
understand how Microsoft security
compliance and identity strategies
provides an endtoend solution across
these platforms visit the Microsoft
certifications page at
www.learn.cashtracking.com
all the key Concepts covered in the
sc900 proctored exam it also includes a
mock exam mapped to all the main exam
topics as well as an additional
Microsoft practice exam that will
bolster your preparation doing so will
enhance your cyber security analyst
portfolio and help you gain the
appropriate skills that you need to
demonstrate your abilities in the
workplace completing all the courses in
the Microsoft cyber security analyst
program will signal to potential
employers that you are motivated capable
and not afraid to learn new things your
journey of Discovery has required a
great deal of perseverance and you
should take pride in how far you've come
well done on your achievement and
Newfound knowledge it has been a
pleasure to accompany you on this path
of
exploration welcome to the Microsoft
sc900 exam preparation and practice
course by now you have completed all of
the other cyber security courses in this
program that's impressive now it's time
to make sure you're ready to take the
Microsoft sc900 exam to this end you
will revisit the key topics and Concepts
covered in the program after you have
successfully completed this professional
certificate you will be ready to
schedule the exam
sc900 Microsoft security compliance and
identity fundamentals through Pearson
view this video will give you a quick
overview of what this course covers
let's explore The Learning Journey you
will be undertaking you will start with
information about the sc900 exam
including how to prepare for the
proctored exam you will discover what
topics will be covered in the exam how
the exam is administered and what
studying strategies are effective then
you will move on to the concepts of
security compliance and identity this
includes reviewing important topics like
the zero trust model and authentication
and authorization venturing onward you
will revisit the capabilities of azure
active directory or Azure ad which is
part of Microsoft entra this includes
the identity services and identity types
in Azure ad for example you will cover
hybrid identity and external identity
types following this you will review
what you learned about the
authentication features of azure ad like
self-service password recess multiactor
authentication and the password
protection and management capabilities
available in Azure ad moving on to the
next part of the course you will
evaluate what you learned about the
access management features of azure ad
for example you will revisit the topic
of conditional access the benefits of
azure ad roles and role-based access
control the subsequent part of the
course is about the identity protection
and governance capabilities of azure ad
here you will cover Concepts like
entitlement management and access
reviews as well as the features of azure
ad privileged identity management or Pim
and Azure ad protection after that you
will revisit Microsoft Security
Solutions for example you will review
what you learned in previous courses
about Azure dos protection Azure
firewall Azure Bastion and just in time
access you will also cover Network
segmentation in Azure virtual networks
Azure network security groups and Azure
data encryption continuing on you will
investigate Azure security management
this includes consolidating your
knowledge of cloud security posture
management or cspm Microsoft cloud
Defender and its enhanced security
features as well as the security
baselines for Azure you will then review
how Microsoft Sentinel provides
integrated threat management through
security information and event
management or Sim and security
orchestration Automation and response or
SAR the section after this focuses on
Microsoft services like Microsoft 365
Defender Defender for Office 365
Defender for endpoint Defender for cloud
apps Defender for identity and the
Microsoft Defender portal following this
you will revisit Microsoft's service
trust portal and privacy principles the
next lesson is about the compliance
management features of Microsoft purview
for example you will review what you
learned about the compliance portal
manager and score you will then move on
to the information protection and data
life cycle management features of
Microsoft purview this includes data
classification capabilities and the
benefits of the content Explorer and
sensitivity label policies this part of
the course also covers data loss
prevention or DLP records management
retention policies labels and retention
label policies the second last part of
the course starts off with risk and
resource governance you will review what
you know about Insider risk management
commun iation compliance and information
barriers after this you will focus on
azure's resource governance capabilities
where you will revisit Azure Blueprints
and Microsoft purviews UniFi data
governance Solutions the final part of
the course is focused on making sure
that you are prepared for the Microsoft
exam sc900 security compliance and
identity fundamentals you will complete
a series of practice exams specifically
designed to assess your Readiness to
take the exam you will also have the
opportunity to take the Microsoft
practice assessment the course
culminates in a graded mock exam that
have questions similar to the real sc900
exam but be assured that everything you
need to complete the assessment will be
covered during your learning with each
lesson made up of video content readings
and quizzes when you complete the course
you'll have earned a course era
certificate to share with your
Professional Network and you will have
tangible examples to talk about in a job
inter
you'll also be prepared to take the
Microsoft sc900 certification exam and
earn your Microsoft certification this
certification is globally recognized
evidence of Real World skills it shows
your commitment to keeping Pace with
rapidly changing technology by expanding
your skill set in your professional
roles in summary after completing this
course you will be able to describe
concepts of security compliance and
identity capabilities of azure active
directory part of of Microsoft entra
Microsoft Security Solutions
capabilities and Microsoft compliance
Solutions
capabilities this course not only
provides you with an in-depth overview
of what the Microsoft sc900 exam will be
about it also gives you the opportunity
to put your knowledge to the test to
prepare for the exam this preparation is
key to making sure that you are ready to
take the exam now that you've reached
the end of this course introduction it's
time to continue on your cyber security
learning path
this is the final course in the
Microsoft cyber security analyst
professional certificate and it will
guide you through your first steps
towards taking the sc900 exam and
earning Microsoft certification by
obtaining Microsoft certification and
security compliance and identity
fundamentals you unlock various career
opportunities enhance your Knowledge and
Skills and build a Competitive Edge in
the job market exams are nothing new
it's likely that you've encountered many
similar challenges earlier in your
career just like before it takes
preparation to make the most of it and
the more effective your preparation the
more benefits you will reap from all
your effort this video will provide a
compact overview of what you can expect
from the exam sc900 the logistics around
taking it and the steps you need to take
to prepare for Success you can take the
sc900 exam online through Pearson view
at your home or office you can also take
your exam with Pearson View at one of
the worldwide test centers Pearson view
is a global leader in computer-based
testing and Assessment Services and
their on viw platform employs several
security measures to ensure a fair and
secure testing experience and maintains
the Integrity of the exam you can
schedule your exam for a specific date
and time from the Pearson view website
there are a few important things to do
before the day of the exam these include
a system check making sure your
governmen issued photo ID meets the
requirements and choosing the
appropriate space to take the exam the
sc900 exam is a proctored exam this
means that during the exam you are
monitored by a live Proctor through your
webcam the Proctor ensures that you
follow the exam guidelines and don't
engage in any prohibited activities
during the check-in process on the day
of your exam the Proctor will also give
you certain instructions there are very
strict rules about what items and
actions are allowed while taking the
exam and you will learn more about them
later in the lesson make sure you
understand these policies because
failing to adhere to them will result in
the termination of the exam session
let's move on to the topics covered in
the exam to succeed in the sc900 exam
you should be familiar with Microsoft
Azure and Microsoft 365 you should be
able to describe the concepts of
security compliance and identity
describe the capabilities of Microsoft
Azure active directory part of Microsoft
entra describe the capabilities of
Microsoft Security Solutions and
describe the capabilities of Microsoft
compliance Solutions there are certain
percentages of exam questions relating
to each of these categories knowing
these percentages can help you focus
your study schedule on the categories
that carry the most weight and help you
prepare in the most effective way later
in this lesson you will also get a
breakdown of the specific ways in which
the skills related to each of these
categories might be assessed effective
exam preparation will require a lot of
dedication but you also need to consider
effective strategies during the exam for
instance the type of questions you might
get and how to approach them reading
every option before choosing a final
answer and following a process of
elimination when you're unsure are some
helpful strategies you will learn more
about these and other strategies later
in the lesson one of the best
preparations that you can make is to
take a practice test before the exam
this way you can monitor your progress
and identify the topics you might have
to revisit later in this course you will
take two mock exams each one will focus
on the topics and key Concepts covered
in the previous courses and the skills
measured in the sc900 exam this video
gave you a bird's eye view on how the
sc900 exam Works what it tests and some
core elements of an effective exam
preparation
strategy you've already put in a lot of
hard work by engaging Ing and course
material exercises and assessments
during this program you are in a good
position for the final stretch before
taking the exam the information and
materials in this lesson will help you
focus your preparation during this final
stage towards earning Microsoft
certification in security compliance and
identity
fundamentals in today's datadriven world
information flows freely across
geographical and political boundaries
and it should be treated like Precious
carg go with a focus on privacy and
protection like a seat belt reduces the
risk of harm in a car crash security
compliance measures dramatically
mitigate the chances of data breaches
and their severe consequences but
preventing car crashes altogether is
even better and that's why drivers need
to follow Road Rules in the same way
companies should adhere to standards and
regulations to proactively safeguard the
data entrusted to them this video delves
into the importance of security
compliance exploring key Concepts
regulations and Industry standards that
drive it and its impact on Modern
business practices security compliance
refers to the process of adhering to
specific laws regulations and guidelines
designed to safeguard data and
information systems by understanding and
implementing security compliance
organizations can ensure that data is
handled responsibly and
securely this comprehensive approach to
security compliance encompasses data
protection access control responsible
storage and sharing practices Microsoft
places a big emphasis on how data is
stored and shared throughout all of
their products there are six key privacy
principles that they enforce and
recommend as best practices for their
customers first is control this
principle maintains that the customer
should be in control of their data
second is transparency a customer should
be made aware of what data is being
gathered and why third is security any
data that has been entrusted to
Microsoft is always maintained in a
secure fashion for example implementing
an identity and access management
platform such as Azure ad represents a
commitment to protect customer data
fourth is strong legal protection
Microsoft will act as an advocate for
the privacy of an individual if a legal
request has been made for personal data
fifth is a no content-based targeting
this entails avoiding the use of private
content to push a service for example
reading messages or using collected
email addresses the sixth and last
principle is benefits to the customer in
other words any data collection such as
through cookies should only be done to
enhance the experience of the customer
compliance is more than just following
principles or rules it is a commitment
to protect sensitive data and maintain
customer trust failure to comply with
established security standards can lead
to Hefty fines legal actions and
significant damage to a company's
reputation the key to managing data
compliance lies in understanding two key
Concepts First Data residency which
relates to where data is housed and
second data sovereignty which is about
who owns data and what can be done with
it first let's explore data residency
data is housed in centers which can be
found all over the world the location of
the center storing a piece of data
governs the laws that apply to this data
since different cont countries have
different data handling laws the same
data might be stored differently in
different regions this means that if you
move data from a data center in one
country to another you need to check if
the regulations differ and might have to
make some adjustments to it moving on to
data sovereignty which is about
ownership and use of data but isn't only
about the data itself it's also about
the metadata gathered from the original
user this can include cookies that
collect additional information
associated with an owner of data two
major laws are worth considering when it
comes to data sovereignty the general
data protection regulation or gdpr and
the California consumer Privacy Act or
CCPA gdpr relates to European law while
CCPA is American specific regulation
there have been several high-profile
fines levied on large corporations for
violating these regulations these
violations generally relate to only one
of these laws not necessarily both this
is because the governing body bodies
have different views on how data related
to an individual should be handled
differences between the regulations are
also why understanding data residency
and sovereignty is so important actions
taken regarding the transportation use
and storage of data in one political
State can be at odds with the regulatory
requirements there but these same
practices might be considered perfectly
acceptable in another country another
point to consider is that company data
in the cloud no longer necessarily
resides on premises in the same country
as the company one must take care
regarding the local data requirements
for the data center in use in conclusion
security compliance is not just a legal
obligation but a fundamental Cornerstone
of a company's reputation and customer
trust it is an ongoing Journey that
involves understanding applicable laws
implementing necessary controls and
conducting regular audits by embracing
this commitment to data protection and
continuously improving security efforts
organizations can establish themselves
as secure and trustworthy entities in
today's datadriven landscape remember
every step taken towards compliance is a
step towards a more resilient and
respected
organization you now know about shared
responsibility and how it relates to
different Microsoft Services the shared
responsibility model provides a
framework to set out duties and
responsibilities between businesses and
providers but what happens when a crisis
occurs there must be a plan and process
in place to leverage those
responsibilities to maintain recover and
secure the resilience of business
operations and this is where business
continuity management or BCM comes in in
this video you will review the basics of
BCM and the Microsoft tools that are
available to help businesses navigate
unforeseen challenges and ensure
organizational resilience first let's
Define business continuity management it
is the the process of planning and
implementing strategies to ensure the
continuous operation of critical
business functions during an unforeseen
incident and the rapid recovery post
event ultimately BCM is concerned with
reducing the impact of unexpected
incidents by building fail safes that
avoid downtime and improve recovery time
there are two objectives when it comes
to BCM recovery time objective or RTO
and Recovery Point objective or RPO RTO
was measured in hours minutes or days
and it's a metric for the permissible
level of downtime for a business process
consider a forward- facing help desk
that goes offline because of a loss of
connectivity in a region if the RTO is 6
hours then there is a window of a
maximum of 6 hours during which the help
desk can be offline without compromising
operations RPO relates to the amount of
data loss the organization can incur in
an incident This concerns backups and
redundancies that a compan has built
into its business process consider a
company that actively gathers and shares
data on weather events its RPO relates
to how long the service can be without
data before it is damaging to the
company if the RPO is 2 hours it means
that data must be backed up every 2
hours so that when recovery happens the
data can be recovered within a window of
2 hours who is responsible for the RTO
and RPO is dependent on whether iaz Pas
or SAS is commissioned for from
Microsoft consider a scenario where a
company has commissioned an iaz in the
event of a crisis the cloud provider
must ensure that the data centers and
processing power are operational before
the predetermined RTO the data and
applications RPO would be the customers
responsibility however if Microsoft Is
providing a SAS such as teams then both
the RTO and RPO would be their
responsibility Microsoft has several
means to ensure that they meet their
obligations let's examine these first
are Regional data centers by providing a
diverse range of locations for their
data centers Microsoft can mitigate
certain unforeseen events such as damage
due to earthquake having data centers on
different continents ensures that such a
disaster will not impact the service
this is further reinforced through a Geo
redundant Service as well as having
dispersed data centers Microsoft creates
backups of the data or service which can
be spun up in times of trouble the there
is also Azure traffic management a
traffic balancing infrastructure that
disperses requests across several
regions it ensures continuity of service
by making sure that a specific region
isn't disrupted through excessive
traffic recovery is supported as
requests can be redirected to
functioning end points this traffic
balancing infrastructure ensures High
availability and low offline events
while Microsoft as cloud provider can
fulfill its responsibilities through the
means outlined
the client should also engage some
measures customer continuity measures
might include business impact analysis
it is the business's responsibility to
be aware of their own weak points by
analyzing where business dependencies
and vulnerabilities are after
identifying these there needs to be an
effective Disaster Recovery plan that
will mitigate these weak points if a
crisis occurs next is application
resilience it is the customer's
responsibility to create robust
applications that are resilient to
issues this can include embedding
features like redundancy so that there
are fallback measures in the event of an
issue application resilience also
includes regular testing and training a
company should employ the Mantra of ever
Vigilant ever ready by constantly
testing their systems and training their
staff to deal with issues a company can
help mitigate incidents before they
occur in conclusion business continuity
management relies on an understanding of
shared
responsibility while different levels of
responsibility exist depending on which
servic is employed both parties will
have responsibility to some degree both
shared responsibility and business
continuity management are essential to a
business's risk management security and
resilience earlier you were introduced
to the topic of zero trust in this video
you will build on what you know about
the zero trust model by exploring the
six founding pillars identity device
monitoring application monitoring data
infrastructure and configuration and how
they work together to create a robust
and comprehensive security framework the
first pillar is identity effective
identity management is at the core of
zero trust every entity that tries to
access a network resource must have a
verifiable identity this can include
people devices services and applications
organizations use authentication methods
like multiactor authentication or MFA to
ensure that a user's identity is
verified before granting access
role-based access controls or arbac also
help Define access privileges based on
users's job functions the second pillar
is device monitoring data passes through
many devices between storage and
retrieval and constant vigilance helps
identify signs of compromise devices
like users are given their own role or
identity to access a system they are
treated with the same autonomy as a
human user and are equally seg M mented
to avoid lateral movement in case of a
hack additionally there are enforced
requirements for updated software
security patches and compliance with
security policies a failure to remain up
to-date means that system access will be
revoked next is application monitoring
it is critical to also monitor
applications that interact with the
network this involves identifying all
applications and strictly managing their
permissions and access role-based Access
Control extends to Applications ensuring
that users can only access applications
necessary for their tasks the fourth
pillar is data this is a precious
commodity hackers may want to exploit
the information in data when a serious
breach occurs and data leaks a company's
reputation can be damaged alternatively
a hacker may try and remove access to
data to disrupt the company's day-to-day
operations ideally data should be
classified labeled and encrypted so that
a company knows what information is
being retained how sensitive it is and
where to access it if required in the
future additionally data in transit and
at rest should be encrypted to secure it
even in the event of a breach the fifth
pillar is infrastructure this is a
concern for on premises businesses
rather than cloud-based businesses
because the cloud provider is
responsible for cloud infrastructure
there are several elements that need to
be considered first is versioning is
your software current and updated ated
next is configuration have your systems
been set up correctly and optimally and
there's also access what strategies have
you implemented to limit and control
access to your system strategies such as
just in time access and just enough
access can be particularly effective the
sixth and last pillar is configuration
ideally networks should be segmented
into sub networks with limited
organizational Mobility the focus here
is to create walls between different
areas of the business this prevents
lateral movement which allows a hacker
to cause more harm after initial access
the zero trust ethos prescribes that the
system is probably already breached so
you should ensure that no sensitive
areas can be reached implementing the
zero trust model comes with its share of
challenges particularly for
organizations with existing it
infrastructures proper planning and
adherence to best practices are
essential some key considerations
include gradual implement impementation
adopting zero trust may not be feasible
overnight especially for large
Enterprises organizations can begin with
a pilot project focusing on specific
critical assets and gradually expand the
model one policy that can Aid this
process is conditional access it
analyzes user behaviors to detect
suspicious activities if detected it
prompts the user to take added security
measures such as updating software
changing passwords or reauth I ating you
should also consider collaboration and
training successful implementation
requires collaboration between it teams
Security Experts and various
stakeholders this includes adequately
training all employees to understand the
zero trust models principles and their
roles in maintaining security Microsoft
provide a helpful resource called the
trust Center where interested parties
can go and learn more about Microsoft
security measures another best practice
is Contin ous monitoring and Analysis
this proactive approach is vital when
following the zero trust model
continuous monitoring and analyzing
Network traffic and behavior are crucial
to identify and respond to potential
threats promptly one service that can
help with this is Microsoft Sentinel it
ingests information from logs and
Telemetry generated from the network
resources to provide realtime monitoring
on activities to determine if any
abnormal activities have occurred to
summarize the zero trust model
represents a paradigm shift in cyber
security no entity is presumed
trustworthy and everything should be
continually verified by adopting this
approach and integrating its key
components organizations can
significantly enhance their security
posture protect critical assets and
mitigate the risk of data
breaches the words cryptography and
encryption May conjure visions of spies
and covert operations or of hackers
sitting in windowless rooms yet much of
today's modern online World wouldn't be
possible without these two concepts they
are the backbone of secure communication
ensuring that exchanged information
remains hidden from prying eyes this
video is about encryption the related
concepts of symmetric and asymmetric
keys and encryption in Azure active
directory part of Microsoft entra let's
get started in the realm of encryption
readable data is known as plain text
after applying an encryption technique
it is referred to as Cipher text in
other words encryption is the process of
changing plain text to Cipher text
through the use of a reversible process
to ensure
confidentiality this can be done by
applying a formula or Cipher to the text
to alter it from one form to another
decryption on the other hand is the
reverse of this process where Cipher
text is converted into plain text
through a cipher typically the cipher is
referred to as the key because it can
lock or unlock data Keys come in two
forms symmet keys and asymmetric Keys a
symmetric key is a cipher that can
encrypt and decrypt data this means that
the key has to be known by both parties
the challenge is to share this Cipher
with the appropriate parties without
allowing a third party to intercept it
consider a scenario where three
colleagues Lydia Saran and Sven want to
share messages using symmetric
encryption Lydia would need a key for
encrypting the data between herself and
San but she would need a different key
to communicate with Sven and a third key
would be necessary for secure
communication between San and Sven of
course the more parties involved the
more keys needed because symmetric
encryption is computationally less
expensive it's typically used when a
large amount of data needs to be
encrypted for instance a hard drive or
if many individuals like employees are
given the ability to decrypt The Source
data a symmetric encryption differs from
symmetric encryption in that it uses
only two keys a public key key and a
private key that form a key pair this
setup enhances secure Communication in
distributed systems by offering a safer
method for key exchange the private key
reads the cipher text of a message
encrypted with a public key and the
private key is never shared consider the
previous scenario but the colleagues use
asymmetric encryption this time Lydia
would have a public key that anyone
including San and Sven could use to
encrypt messages meant for her however
only Lydia's private key can decrypt
those messages similarly Saran and Sven
would each have their own unique public
and private key pairs for secure
communication for every individual only
two keys are required this means that
there are fewer Keys created as compared
to symmetric encryption this more secure
form of data encryption is typically
used in both social and financial
exchanges on the internet let's move on
from keys to a broader understanding of
how data exists and is safeguarded
data can be said to be at rest or in
transit typically data is stored in a
database on a hard drive or in a data
storage center this data is said to be
at rest and can be encrypted so even if
a hacker has gained access to the data
they still can't use it remember the
principles of zero trust and assuming
breach this is a prime example even
though the data is stored securely
behind a firewall it is still rendered
unreadable to an unauthorized individual
data moving from one device to another
is said to be in transit this data is
often encrypted at the application layer
before it is downloaded onto the network
when it is received it is then decrypted
and rendered for the recipient the need
to encrypt data in transit is due to a
popular hacking exploit known as a manin
the-middle attack hackers position their
devices between the sender and the
receiver the data is copied and then
passed on to the intended party a less
commonly known encryption is when when
data is encrypted while in use this
encryption form is used for sensitive
data that needs to be treated with
greater care data is siloed on
non-persistent storage and then
encrypted as the CPU processes it
applying various levels of encryption
requires more processing time so like
with any form of security there is a
trade-off between ease of accessibility
and security now let's examine how
encryption Works in Azure encryption
keys are securely stored within azure
measure key Vault when transferring data
to and from the Vault the data is
protected using the transport layer
security or TLS protocol Additionally
the connection is fortified with perfect
forward secrecy or PFS which is a
cryptographic approach that employs
symmetric encryption to generate a
unique session key for each connection
before any data is stored this session
key is Thoroughly scrutinized to ensure
the Integrity of the session and to
prevent potential compromises by
malicious actors this approach of
encrypting the data in transit and using
the session key before data is stored is
an example of azure ad's defense in
depth in summary encryption serves as
the Bedrock for secure Communications in
the digital age understanding its
intricacies is vital with symmetric and
asymmetric Keys offering unique
approaches to safeguarding data as cyber
threats evolve these tools will remain
at the Forefront ensuring digital
interactions remain confidential and
protected every time you log into your
email social media or any online account
you're benefiting from the behindth
scenes use of hashing to protect your
password you might recall that hashing
works like this when you create an
account on a website or platform the
website doesn't store your actual
password in its database instead the
website server applies a hashing
algorithm to your password and stores
the resulting hash in its database when
you log in the webs s ite hashes the
password you enter and Compares it to
the stored hash in its database if the
hashes match your granted access if not
you can't log in this process enhances
security because even if a malicious
actor gains access to the website's
database they won't obtain your actual
password instead they'll get the hash
which is incredibly difficult to reverse
engineer to obtain the original password
this video will take you through the
evolution of hashing from its
rudimentary stages to the more
sophisticated hashing used today a
hashing algorithm takes an input like
plain text and applies a hashing
function that generates a fixed length
output the hashing function is
deterministic meaning the result is
always the same and it is primarily used
for authenticity checks that is to say
the recipient of a message can verify
that the message has not been corrupted
in transit message digest algorithm 5 or
md5 was one of the earliest and most
common hashes regarding regardless of
the length of data inputed it always
outputed a 128bit hash value typically
an algorithm will use padding to extend
the input length to ensure it is the
same as the output length inversely the
folding method is applied when an input
is longer than the output folding
involves repeatedly processing or
adjusting the characters to fit the
desired output length this is similar
conceptually to wrapping text in an
Excel column md5 was most commonly used
in password storage from the start of
the '90s as an early cyber security
innovation this approach is now
considered redundant due to excessive
amounts of collisions a collision is
when two different inputs generate the
same output consider a simplistic
hashing function using modulo five this
refers to the remainder left over after
the target number is divided by the
modulo in this case five if you examine
this table it is clear that the
algorithm works for numbers 1 to 5 as
the approach gener generates a unique
output on each turn however from number
six the issues with the algorithm become
apparent the output of one and six and
seven and two create collisions because
they are the same there are a few
interesting properties to note firstly
the algorithm's output retains no
reference to the input this means you
can't tell from the result if the
original number was one or six this
reflects the information loss that
occurred in the process the issue with
collisions is that if the output is not
unique
it cannot be used to verify authenticity
collisions open the door for hackers to
generate a false hash with some
malicious code and trick your computer
into accepting it secure hash algorithm
or sha is the more secure successor to
the now redundant md5 it generates a
fixed output of 160 bit hash values but
as computing power grew the original sha
now called sha1 became redundant now
there is a family of sha algorithms that
generate different fixed length outputs
for instance sha224 generates a fixed
length output of 224 bits or 28 bytes
sha256 generates fixed length 256 bits
output and so on the complexity of the
Sha algorithm changes but the
characteristics of the hashing method
are the same the first characteristic is
that the method needs to be quick but
not too quick too quick means it can be
reproduced posing a security risk and
second it needs to have an avalanche
event in other words if one element in
the input changes the output changes
consider you Hash a document if you open
this document and change one slight
thing like a space it must cause the
generation of a completely different
hash and third the Sha algorithm needs
to avoid collisions in this video you've
unraveled the significance of hashing
algorithms in cyber security from m d5s
early days to the diverse sha family
these algorithms have played a vital
role in safeguarding data Integrity
remember a good hashing method must
strike a balance between speed Avalanche
effects and collision
avoidance up to this point you've
explored the power of hashing which
efficiently converts input to a fixed
hash used for verifying the original
data however it's crucial to understand
that a hash is a one-way process meant
so f for data
verification this is where encryption
steps in it offers
reversibility in this video you will
explore encryption techniques another
critical facet of data security and how
it allows you to scramble data in a way
that can be decrypted an encryption
algorithm takes an input applies an
algorithm and generates an output that
hides the semantics of the original
content the generated output is in a
state where the process can be reversed
to Output the original content there are
several wellestablished methods for
doing this take the simple
transformation process Illustrated in
this example it demonstrates a simple
algorithmic approach that replaces each
Alphabet letter with a number for
example each letter in the word Fox is
respectively represented by the Numbers
6 15 and 24 this is a proper encryption
because the key can regenerate the
original text this is also an example of
Ono one mapping one to one mapping
refers to a relationship where each
element from one set corresponds to
exactly one unique element in another
set but one to one mapping is a security
risk because it simplifies the challenge
of identifying the cipher this
shortcoming was addressed in modern
encryption approaches like Advanced
encryption standard or AES AES avoids
this through substitutions permutations
and mixing operations AES is a symmetric
key encryption it is a prevalent
encryption approach in e-commerce file
encryption and online banking let's
examine how it works AES Works in
iteration so several rounds are
performed to generate the final
encrypted output first the plain text is
converted into a matrix with X rows and
columns the original key can be 128 192
or 256 bits long the keys length
dictates the encryption's complexity and
the number of rounds performed which can
be 10 12 or 14
respectively then a bitwise XO combines
the key with the plain text in the
initial round this is similar to salting
when hashing is applied it adds a level
of diffusion thereby adding a further
layer of security after this each
subsequent round consists of four
subprocesses these are sub bites where
plain text is switched with a
representation from the substitution
table shift rows which is when rows and
the Matrix are shifted mix columns where
Matrix multiplication is applied to the
columns to alter them and finally add
round key which is when the key is
further integrated with the plain text
using the bitwise xor operation by
completing these steps the algorithm
obscures the original content by
altering the original plain text through
permutation substitution and
transformation methods this process is
100% reversible but requires the
original key other examples of
contemporary encryption approaches
include chaa 20 a symmetric stream
Cipher designed to encrypt large data
sets efficiently it creates a stream of
pseudo random bits that are then
combined with the plain text using xor
to form the cipher text RSA which stands
for rivest Shamir Adelman it's an
asymmetric encryption algorithm based on
the mathematical properties of large
prime numbers it uses a public key for
encryption and a private key for
decryption providing secure key exchange
and digital signatures and elliptic
curve cryptography or ECC is an
asymmetric encryption method that relies
on the mathematical properties of
elliptic curves over finite Fields ECC
offers equivalent security to
traditional RSA but with smaller key
sizes making it suitable for resource
constrained
environments in this video you did a
deep dive into how encryption Works
while different algorithms employ
different approaches understanding the
underlying mechanisms can help you gain
a greater intuition of how the processes
generally
work technology is constantly shifting
how people engage with one another and
conduct business powerful computers and
devices high-speed internet and social
and business collaborative platforms
have led to a fundamental shift in how
individuals work working from home is
now more possible than ever this has led
to a change in how organizations secure
their assets once favoring an
on-premises security perimeter security
methods now hold identity as King in
this video you will learn how this shift
has led to a radical change in security
methodology let's start off by exploring
how the need for alternative and secure
login methods manifested with the
changing times before one employee used
one workstation to access a network
today many employees use all means of
devices to access company networks
globally the global pandemic in 2020
accelerated this trend because it caused
a shutdown of many Industries and
restricted the movement of people access
to work environments from different
locations was suddenly a critical need
to continue business operations the
pandemic massively increased the work
from home phenomenon enhanced
collaboration among both internal and
external organizational resources was
another push for remote access for
company resources thus the traditional
approach to maintaining a company's on
premises based security perimeter is no
longer viable other factors that
contribute to its shortcomings include a
growth in SAS applications nowadays
companies Outsource many crucial
functions to external third parties
these specialized services like call
centers bookkeeping and financial
transaction Services need to integrate
securely with company's internal
networks and devices bring your own
device or BYOD is also a contributing
factor and a spin-off resulting from the
work from home phenomenon an employee
May communicate with a client from a
personal telephone or access company
files from home using devices registered
with the system but not belonging to the
company deems an on-premises security
perimeter obsolete another factor is
unmanaged devices from thirdparty
Network users for instance an individual
within a SAS company May access company
resources through personal devices
unfamiliar to the system unlike BYOD
employee access these unmanaged devices
access company networks sporadically and
since they are not associated with a
particular individual this makes them
even harder to track and control
furthermore The Internet of Things is
becoming more autonomous on company
networks this creates a need for a
security perimeter that can manage
requests from iot devices to access
internal information and services by now
it should be clear that identity relates
to more than just people it relates to
all sorts of devices that request
company information the SAS applications
a company uses partner companies and
their employees and so on and that is
why identity is the new security
perimeter in the modern business world
to use identity as a security device you
must assign an identity to every entity
that interacts with the system this
includes People Partners devices and
applications this way you can track all
requests made from the system back to a
given entity therefore each entity has a
set of logs and permissions that are
associated with it the concept of
identity as a security stands on two
principles first record all means of
access before giving access to a resourc
or system and second only give limited
access appropriate to an entity's
function within the company but what is
the basis for ensuring secure identities
earlier you learned about the Seven
Pillars of zero trust there are also
four pillars for the identity structure
that tie in with it the the first pillar
is the administration of the creation
management and maintenance of identities
there are various guidelines and best
practices for creating deleting and
updating identities shared in this and
earlier courses it's essential to stay
current on these guidelines because they
will continue to evolve along with
rapidly changing business environments
next is authentication the focus here is
on the information a system requires to
determine if a legitimate identity
requests access a a myriad of signals
can direct the request to an appropriate
access channel for instance information
on the identity itself and its
behavioral pattern signals also include
other metadata such as time stamps and
geolocation stamps to name a few the
third pillar of the identity structure
is authorization if a system
successfully determines that it is a
legitimate entity requesting access the
next step is to determine what access to
Grant here the focus is to minimize
access access to only what is essential
for an entity to perform its function
and last is auditing having allowed an
entity onto the system auditing is about
monitoring the activities of this entity
the questions related to this are who
what where and
how alerts reports and access governance
all form part of auditing in this video
you've explored the shift from
traditional security perimeters to an
identity Centric approach to meet
today's access needs
identity now encompasses people devices
applications and external entities the
four pillars of the identity structure
Administration authentication
authorization and auditing are crucial
in this evolving landscape these
Concepts form a fundamental backbone of
azure ad and are some of the major
topics covered in the exam
sc900 in the rest of this lesson you
will unpack them in more detail
incorporating pertinent building blocks
to for C ify your cyber security
foundation for the modern
era by now you know that authentication
and authorization are two methods by
which companies create flexible and
secure access to company resources you
also learned that Azure ad is a
centralized way to provide this safe
access but what does centralized really
mean in this video you will explore the
various ways Azure ad provides
centralized Access Control Azure ad acts
as an umbrella system providing
centralized access to various services
and applications of a company there are
various advantages to such a centralized
approach in addition to having to verify
users identities only once they can
access company files and communicate
with co-workers centrally and everyone
can collaborate on the same version of
the document today many businesses rely
on various devices applications Services
users collaborators and customers to
meet operational business needs
these Services could include Microsoft
365 SharePoint Ms teams PowerPoint and
Azure resources to name a few the access
and integration of these different
Services gave rise to the need for a
centralized management system and Azure
ad met that challenge Azure ad is an
identity as a service or idas it
maintains credentials on all users
devices applications and services that
need to interact with your organization
resources it incorporates a means of
successfully verifying the right of the
user to engage with the system to work
an idas requires an access policy
essentially an access policy defines the
barriers of authorization as explained
earlier it determines to what extent an
identity can interact with the system
another essential component that makes
this umbrella system work is the
authorization engine this is a complex
set of services that execute the access
policy but also perform risk
analysis the authorization engine
creates an identity which is used to
ensure the right person is accessing
files it also monitors usage and adds
further obstacles to prevent a system
breach the authorization engine has the
power to request an entity to provide
further identity
verification additionally it can also
notify managers when an entity's
activity is unusual or follows a
suspicious pattern a centralized
authorization and authen ication service
serves multiple roles this includes
limiting access to your applications
verifying and storing user details
analyzing activity generating reports
and actively triaging breaches
additionally it offers time-saving
measures by automating tasks such as
resetting passwords creating identities
and verifying users whats more it is
configurable so that you can incorporate
all of your services into one umbrella
system that provides this uniform
functionality for all aspects of your
business the complexity of the task is
evident in this diagram let's examine
the main components closer first is
credential management this step controls
authentication which includes verifying
the identity of users and devices
attempting to access
resources authentication typically
involves username and password
combinations Biometrics or multiactor
authentication next is provisioning and
and entitlement Management in this step
Azure Define access packages assign
users to specific resources and push
access data for
attestation access packages typically
outline what permissions and resources a
user or device should have following
this the authorization engine evaluates
the access policy to determine whether a
user or device should be granted access
it takes into account access policies
risk detections including user and
entity behavioral analytics or UEA data
and device compliance for endpoint
management this step ensures that access
is granted based on specific conditions
and security policies then access is
granted or denied based on the
evaluation by the authorization engine
if authorized the user or device gains
access according to conditional access
policies and controls if not authorized
access is denied Azure also offers
real-time remedi ation if access is
denied users may have the opportunity
for real-time remediation to address the
issues causing the denial this could
include actions like updating software
changing permissions password reset MFA
or taking other corrective actions to
unblock themselves as mentioned earlier
all session data is logged for analysis
and Reporting this step ensures that a
record of all access attempts and
actions taken during the session is
maintained for auditing and security
analysis purposes and lastly the
security information and event
management or Sim system receives logs
risk detection information and ubaa data
from both cloud and on premises entities
this integration allows for centralized
monitoring analysis and reporting of
security related events and incidents
this video provided an overview of the
benefits of having a centralized access
and management system and the various
functions it can perform
you also learned about the access policy
and the authorization engine which forms
the backbone of an idz such as Azure ad
later in the lesson you will explore ID
and active directory in Greater
depth many companies today have
employees scattered across different
regions each needing access to a variety
of applications and resources keeping
track of user accounts managing access
permissions and ensuring security across
multiple platforms can become a
logistical nightmare these companies
need a way to manage identities
centrally Azure active directory answers
this call by streamlining Access Control
ensuring that the right people have the
right level of access to the right
resources in this video you will
discover what led to the development of
azure active directory or Azure ad as an
extension to the initial Act of
directory also referred to as ad you
will also explore the different
additions of azure ad to understand
exactly what an active directory is it
can help to first break down the terms a
directory is a hierarchical structure
that houses information about objects in
active directory the directory stores
information about the objects on a
network so a directory service stores
directory data and makes it available to
network users administrators
applications and other services active
directory was initially developed by
Microsoft in 2000 it was an on-premises
Direct of all the services available to
the users of a network it helped
organizations manage the various
directories and services available to
them the best known service of this kind
is active directory domain services or
adds adds utilizes domain Services as a
form of verification by maintaining a
record of all users and devices linked
with the domain but as organizational
structures got more sophisticated more
and more business operations moved to
the cloud this grew in tandem with the
use of mobile devices and SAS neither of
which were supported by adds in addition
adds did not support modern
authentication methods as outlined
earlier in this lesson Microsoft
subsequently launched Azure active
directory or Azure ad a cloud-based
active directory that supports both SAS
applications and mobile devices it
provides the same authentication and
verification features used in adds as
well as more sophisticated verification
access procedures such as MFA
conditional access and identity
protection thus Azure active directory
is a successor to active directory
domain Services one could extend the
functionality of azure ad and say that
it provides identity as a service or
idas for cloud-based and on-premises
setups but what if an organization
already uses an on-premises ad for that
reason Azure active directory is
designed to augment existing active
directory Services an organization can
increase efficiency by creating a
cloud-based ad providing seamless
integration with online functionalities
this impacts many aspects of both on
premises and cloud-based identity
management Azure ad has many built-in
features that enable quick
initialization this includes easyto use
device management and registration to
accommodate distributed working but
active directory and Azure ad also
differ in terms of security features
Azure ad Advocates using multiactor
authentication or MFA because of its
proven ability to restrict the hacking
of existing
identities while this is not a feature
of on premises active directory it's
built into Azure ad however implementing
this additional security feature
requires additional configuration and it
knowledge MFA can further be
incorporated into business to customer
or b2c enabling customers to secure
access to a product the two offerings
also differ in terms of
accessibility because aure ad is
cloud-based redundancy Geographic
dispersion and backups can be created
whereas an on-premises ad only supports
access while users are on site finally
Azure ad offers the ability to scale up
or down depending on demand on the other
hand ad is restricted by Hardware
limitations Azure ad can be described as
a distributed scalable updated variation
of its predecessor active directory
domain Services however maintaining
existing on-premises adds systems in
tandem with an Azure ad account is
advisable as it can act as a backup in
the event of azure ad being inaccessible
Microsoft provides a host of tools to
facilitate a hybrid implementation such
as Azure ad connect which amongst other
services offers seamless
integration next let's explore the
different Azure ad additions a Azure ad
comes in four additions each differently
priced and offering access to various
Services first is azure free edition
this has A's core identity and access
features in addition it has access to
Azure Dynamics 365 in tune and power
platforms office 365's apps is another
edition of azure ad and includes all
features available in the free edition
in addition it has some more
capabilities for managing identities and
access for instance it comes with other
Microsoft products such as Office 365
next is premium P1 which has all the
office 365's apps Edition features it
includes additional password and group
management capabilities hybrid
identities and conditional access policy
configurations it is available from
other Microsoft products such as
Microsoft 365 E3 E5 and so on and last
is premium P2 this is the most
comprehensive edition if it encompasses
all the features of P1 but also includes
identity protection and governance
features it is included with some
Microsoft packages or can be acquired as
a separate license in this video you
explored the origins of active directory
and mapped how it has transformed into
Azure ad the modern implementation you
explored the differences between these
two identity management variations
focusing on the additional features
Azure ad brings lastly you insights into
the different Azure ad editions
available you've learned that identity
in cyber security refers to a digital
profile applied to any entity that
accesses a system it's called a digital
profile because it extends Beyond people
to include the applications devices and
services that interact with a network an
identity might refer to a sensor
monitoring the physical access to a
building in this video however you will
focus specifically on different human
identities that may be accessing a
company's system and the management of
these identities identity management
refers to creating and overseeing entity
profiles in a system as an identity and
access management system Azure ad first
allows the creation of identities then
helps govern their activities in a
system conceptually an entity has a
definite path you create it provision it
to a specific role and eventually
destroy it this is called The Entity
life cycle
but notice that a second job role is
added to the cycle any HR manager will
agree that careers are Dynamic naturally
people tend to move to different roles
in a company Azure ad makes provision
for identities that might transition
from one role to another over the course
of its life cycle to maintain a strong
security posture you should actively
monitor the current stage of an identity
for instance a company should revoke
access to corporate files for employees
who have left the company similarly when
employees transition to other sections
in a company they should not retain
their initial access rights unless it
pertains to their new roles as an access
management tool Azure specifically helps
with these transitions furthermore Azure
ad can directly integrate with HR
functions through SAS applications such
as success factors or workday these
applications streamline hiring and
employee Management in this way the
system automatically updates an employee
stand St as they transition roles and
contracts since Azure ad is a
centralized identity and access provider
it also supports the creation of
customer identities a business that
wants to create identities for its
customers on Azure ADB Toc can use
standards-based authentication protocols
these include open ID connect ooth 2.0
and security assertion markup language
or
saml just like with any identity that is
associated ated with the organization
Network a customer identity has access
to use certain Company products as per
the licensing agreement Azure ADB Toc
manages these various licenses and
simplifies access rights using the same
identity mechanisms as Azure ad this
specialized Microsoft service is
structured similarly to Azure ad though
with a more specialized Focus while
Azure ad is concerned with managing
access for employees and collaborators
to network resources to create line of
business or lob products Azure ADB Toc
is designed to manage customer access to
these products additionally Azure ADB
Toc offers customers the benefit of
single sign on or SSO SSO means that
once users authenticate with one
identity provider they do not need to
reauthenticate using another service
configured SSO in the same ecosystem you
should be familiar with SSO have you
ever accessed another web service or app
by using your preferred social media
credentials in the same way when
customers access a service hosted on
Azure ADB Toc after the initial
authentication to an Azure b2c account
there is no need to reauthenticate as
the session will propagate forward this
seamless access to a company service
encourages interaction through ease of
access while maintaining a strong
security posture another advantage of
the use of b2c is third-party
identification verification and proofing
you can think about third party identity
proofing like this when you apply for a
job you use references from past
employers that confirms your good
character in the same way third-party
identifications can provide a reference
for your authenticity this can have the
long-term effect of reducing fraud and
risk as you can have greater confidence
in the authentication of your users
moreover thirdparty identity proofing
makes spoofing identities more
challenging for hackers this additional
authentic ation feature can be a money
saver for some Industries like banking
finance and Healthcare it can prevent
penalties that might arise due to
Industry specific authentication
requirements finally this authentication
feature can be used in continuous
monitoring recall that Azure ad has
built in pattern recognition
capabilities with the correct
configurations it raises any event where
a user acts contrary to the expected
pattern this additional service can help
detect suspicious activity
this video introduced the identity life
cycle and rooted it in good security
practices you also discovered how Azure
governs access to Company products
finally you learned how single sign on
can be a useful customer
benefit managing any project can be a
challenging task and as a project grows
so does its management requirements this
is particularly true when dealing with
large organizations with many moving
Parts new roles resource staff and
projects must align with company policy
and because these are ever shifting
components policy must remain flexible
identity management is at the heart of
this issue throughout this course you've
learned about identity management
measures that can ensure the safety of
company resources but without proper
implementation these measures will be
ineffective one example of this is the
management of user rights across the
identity life cycle of employees the
provisioning of adequate per to access
resources and complete tasks is
important but removing these permissions
as they become outdated is just as
important multiply this management
function by hundreds or thousands of
employees and you run into a logistical
nightmare fortunately Group Policy
offers a solution to this identity
management problem in this video you
will learn more about group policy and
how it provides an easy way to configure
the many components of a network
Microsoft initially introduced group
policy in the 90s to manage distributed
Windows machines on a network with the
introduction of the Active Directory
Group Policy was further developed as a
tool for administering policy centrally
other enhanced functionalities include
streamlining software installation and
configuring settings uniformly to adhere
to company policy through the use of
Group Policy administrators can ensure a
standard password complexity software
deployment system updates Network
configurations firewall settings and
auditing and Patch management what's
more Group Policy enables an
administrator to maintain these
standards throughout domain services
this is important because maintaining
Security in a large organization depends
on consistency consider a scenario where
each domain within an organization
configures its own conditional and
access policies these varying security
requirements open many doors for a
determined hacker to gain access to the
organization in a world of specialized
roles it is Paramount that all cyber
security Specialists across an
organization follow the same working
parameters and guidelines Group Policy
enables an administrator to configure
and enforce such rules for all
Associated group
members so far you've learned that by
using group policies an organization can
standardize its security posture but
another benefit is the potential for a
streamlined pipeline by creating group
policies you can enforce a more
streamlined pipeline for tasks like
compiling packaging and deploying
software applications for instance a
security policy can mandate conducting
specific tests in a consistent manner
thereby promoting increased uptime and
reducing bug uploads to the working
Branch moving on from the benefits of a
streamlined pipeline let's focus on how
you can Implement group policies in
cloud and hybrid
environments you can configure group
policy for your Azure active directory
but in a hybrid environment adds will
not take on the group policy
configurations uniformly to apply it to
adds you need Azure ad connect this
creates a virtualization of the
traditional on-premises domain services
but what about the mechanics of Group
Policy within an
organization administrators can leverage
Group Policy to enforce Collective group
objects named Group Policy objects or
gpos which represent the administrative
policies of a company common company
gpos include a registry which prevents
users below a certain role level from
accessing the registry software
prevention which limits the software
that can run on company Hardware folder
redirection that allows Network share to
enable group interactivity running
scripts that automatically run log on or
log off procedures and security which
ensures that some certificates are
required before accessing a resource in
conclusion Group Policy benefits
organizations by enabling the
enforcement of standardized security
measures and streamlined software
deployment processes it ensures
compliance reduces errors and enhances
efficiency by allowing centralized
control over user and device
configurations within the organization's
digital
environment by now you know that
identity is the new security perimeter
in the world of cloud computing the
mechanism by which identity protects
company resources is by controlling the
scope of identities there are many real
life examples that are similar to this
concept for instance a company grants
access to an employee to specific areas
in the building in this video you will
gain an understanding of identity scope
through the context of security within
an organization firstly you will explore
what an identity is and how you can
assign roles to different entities you
will also examine the four role levels
of azure and how you can use identity
scope in different ways to enforce
security by reducing access first let's
gain some insight into what an identity
is earlier you learned that identity is
the Cornerstone of how companies
organize a security perimeter it is the
key to which we access various devices
and is a digital Persona that represents
an entity an entity can be a device
application person or service Azure
active directory is the authenticator
that determines the validity of an
entity after an identity has been
sanctioned you must determine the level
of access to Grant it for example least
privilege zero trust and conditional
access Additionally you must determine
which resources these actions can be
performed on this is the scope of an
identity now that you are aware of what
an identity is let's examine assigning
roles one way that you can scope an
entity is by assigning it a role
previously you learned how the identity
life cycle demonstrates that the scope
of an identity changes constantly
depending on the role Azure active
directory has a range of about 60
built-in roles with fixed permissions
that cannot be changed these templated
roles fill repeating common requirements
that Microsoft has identified Azure
active directory also enables you to
create custom roles with your own
permissions when a user's role is
granted with a specified scope it is
known as a role assignment the scope
relates to the resources the rule can
apply its permissions to a rues scope
scope can be as broad as the entire
resources of the organization or limited
to a single object like a virtual
machine now that you are familiar with
the concept of roles let's explore the
relevant section on the Azure portal to
get a better insight into roles let's
navigate to the Azure portal and select
roles and
administrators this displays an
alphabetical list of built-in roles that
are available in this example the user
has the role of global administrator and
a summary of what this role entails is
provided
each role has a section titled protected
actions which are permissions assigned
to the role that have conditional access
protected actions act independently of
roles and are an example of Defense in
depth or
D if an organization considers a
specific action or asset requires
further protection it can add this extra
security measure regardless of the role
assignment of the user you can use a
built-in role as template from which to
create your custom roles however before
you create custom roles that deviate
from the prescribed permissions it is
worth taking the time exploring
different roles and what they can
achieve next let's gain some insight
into the four role levels in Azure each
level reflects the scope and helps to
structure and manage resources access
control and billing these levels are
management subscriptions resource groups
and resources the scope is structured in
a hierarchical fashion where permissions
trickle down from the top to the bottom
an identity in the management group has
all permissions while a role assigned to
a resource only impacts that resource
this example is a simplified branch of a
hierarchy management members can also
span different branches a Management
Group can have multiple subscriptions
and oversee other management groups the
organization of the resources follows a
logical pattern in this way you can
group each related resource by
association these associations then form
groups that combined will acheve AI a
certain goal you can then create a
subscription with a specific goal for
example the maintenance of a certain
application or development to achieve
this goal you can make multiple resource
groups accessible finally you can create
a Management Group to oversee this
process there are many ways to assign
scope including through the Azure
command line interface or CLI the Azure
portal Azure Powershell and Azure
resource manager or arm templates in
this video you learned about scope how
it relates to an entity and the
structure of access in Azure active
directory you also examined roles and
their Associated responsibilities how
Azure not only provides built-in roles
but also enables you to create custom
roles finally you learned about the four
role levels of azure namely management
subscriptions resource groups and
Resources by examining these topics you
have gained an understanding of how the
structure of azure is designed to limit
identity access based on the assigned
level of a resource or
group this week you embarked on a
journey through Network and asset
security exploring their Concepts in
Greater depth Additionally you learned
the value of upholding compliance in
business and deepened your knowledge of
identity Concepts let's take a moment in
this video to reflect on the key
takeaways from this week's learning you
began your week with an overview of how
the sc900 exam works you explored the
logistics around taking the the sc900
exam specifically regarding the exam
space proctoring and allowed actions you
discovered what happens on the day of
the exam and you should now be able to
identify key skills that the exam
measures you now have the knowledge of
how to allocate study time and prepare
for Success after learning the
significance of security compliance you
studied several key Concepts regulations
and Industry standards that underpin it
you discovered that security compliance
is not just a legal obl ation but
fundamental to a company's reputation
and Trust in an ongoing Journey that
involves understanding the law
implementing necessary controls and
conducting regular audits you then
explored Microsoft's comprehensive
approach to compliance and learned how
it lies within the trust Center which
you discovered is part of azure and
serves a range of Microsoft products you
learned about responsibility models and
who carries what responsibilities for
different Services which can vary based
on where the workload is hosted next you
reviewed the basics of business
continuity management or BCM and
explored the available Microsoft tools
to help businesses navigate challenges
and ensure resilience following that you
continued your journey by learning more
about zero trust models six founding
pillars identity device monitoring
application monitoring data
infrastructure and configuration after
you explored zero trust you inspected
encryption in Greater detail by EXP
exploring symmetric and asymmetric Keys
you discovered how encryption Works
within the Azure active directory
encryption takes plain text applies a
cipher which can be read on the other
side to send information privately
encryption plays a pivotal role in
safeguarding digital information and can
be tailored for specific needs and
scenarios you then buil on this
knowledge by exploring hashing while
very similar to encryption these
algorithms use different approaches you
should know the underlying mechanics as
they can help you better grasp how the
processes function using hashing you can
verify that what you send was received
but encryption hides information so that
it can only be seen by the intended
recipient on the surface they may appear
similar in nature however their intent
and underlying mechanics are actually
very different for example a hashing
algorithm outputs a fixed length hash
that reflects everything that was in a
document if a single item is changed it
will impact the hash this ensures that
data cannot be tampered with however an
encryption algorithm applies a cipher to
a text so that the meaning is not easily
decipherable this can be reversed by the
recipient to reveal the text this makes
it a two-way process that allows for
sending information privately while a
hash cannot be reversed and is instead
to ensure data Integrity you then
explored the shift from traditional
security perimeters to an identity
Centric approach you learned how
identity now encompasses people devices
applications and functions you then
studied authentication and authorization
which form integral parts of the
identity Centric security
approaches you discovered that
authentication is about establishing who
you are and proving it at the same time
authorization refers to what you can do
on the system when you have successfully
entered your
credentials you also reviewed the core
concepts related to authorization such
as conditional access least privilege
and zero trust following this you gained
an understanding of the benefits of
having a centralized access and
management system you learned about the
access policy and the authorization
engine which forms the backbone of an
idas such as Azure ad after that you
investigated the history of Active
Directory which is a means of managing
identity and access to an on premises
Network and discovered how it evolved
into Azure ad by comparing both you
discovered the extra functionality that
asure ad offers as you progressed you
explored the identity life cycle and
learned about its solid security
practices you expanded this further by
examining external
identities external identities enable
access to a company's resources for
people who are external to the
organization this may be required when
collaborating with Partners or clients
Microsoft has developed two SAS apps for
this purpose that provide appropriate
ways for accessing resources or products
aure ADB Tob and Azure ADB Toc next you
learned how Federation is a mechanism
that enables access to different domains
using one set of
credentials You Now understand identity
identity providers and single sign on
through the lens of federation the final
section this week explored how Group
Policy benefits organizations by
enabling the enforcement of standardized
security measures you now know that
group policy ensures compliance reduces
errors and enhances efficiency you also
gained an understanding of identity
scope learning how you can use identity
scope in different ways to enforce
security by reducing access finally you
explored hybrid identity and examined
the three methods it uses to
authenticate namely Azure ad password
hash synchronization Azure ad pass
through authentication and Federated
access with the knowledge you gained
this week you are now ready to move on
to the study checkpoint remember keeping
up with evolving cyber attacks will
continue to be challenging but by
continuing to learn about the tools
available and evolving to current cyber
security Trends you can remain at the
Forefront of cyber
security by now you are well aware that
authentication is taking information
from a user to determine if they have a
legitimate clearance to access a domain
or resource recall that initial attempts
to create safe environments began with
passwords combined with a username
however as time progressed and more
sophisticated hacks were increasingly
successfully executed the shortcomings
of this form of authentication became
more apparent leading to the growth of
Alternative forms of authentication in
this video you will explore the
authentication methods in Azure active
directory or ad including more secure
forms of traditional password
authentication methods when it comes to
the drawbacks of using passwords often a
simple easy-to-remember password
is an easily hackable one Microsoft has
introduced many alternative
authentication methods along with best
practices for password use and creation
a common device that most people possess
is a phone this can be used as an
excellent alternative to a password a
user wishing to gain access to a
resource requires an active phone number
as part of their registration process
the user then receives a text message to
that number when attempting to gain
access this verification code is then
used in place of the password equally
instead of an SMS a user can respond to
a phone call and enter the hashtag
symbol when prompted to verify their
login another approach is the use of
open authentication or oath this open
standard protocol directs the creation
of a one-off code that expires after a
short period this code can be generated
through Hardware or software software
oath tokens are created using an
application that accepts a secret key or
seed from Azure ad that generates the
access code A variation on this is the
use of Hardware tokens these small
devices often resembling a key fob or
memory stick are designed to generate
time-based passwords or codes at regular
intervals typically every 30 to 60
seconds the hardware tokens are
pre-loaded with a secret key or seed
which serves as the basis for generating
the one-time passwords during the user
regist ation process the token is
associated with the user's account
thereby creating a link between the
token and the authentication
process when a user attempts to log in
they must provide both the regular
password and the current one-time
password displayed on their hardware
token this code is synchronized with
Azure ad allowing the server to verify
its validity and match it with the
user's account by generating new
passwords every few seconds the hardware
tokens enhance security as these
time-based codes are difficult for
attackers to intercept and reuse it's
important to note that while Hardware
tokens offer robust security their setup
and management may involve additional
administrative tasks the secret keys and
other specific token information must be
securely input into Azure ad and
activated for individual end users
despite this initial setup overhead the
enhanced security provided by Hardware
tokens makes them an attractive op
option for organizations seeking
stronger authentication measures
particularly when users need access to
sensitive data or critical systems it is
worth noting that oath tokens are not
used as primary authentication instead
they are paired with other forms of
authentication as a secondary means of
authentication used in multiactor
authentication called MFA or
self-service password resets also called
sspr for short as a result of the
shortcomings of using traditional
authentication approaches Security
Experts are moving away from password
and username authentication types to
more complex Solutions such as Windows
hello for business and fast identity
online or PH2 security key these methods
are currently considered as
state-of-the-art and offers serious
challenges for a hacker Windows hello
for business requires two forms of
authentication to gain access first
access is only allowed through a
pre-registered device because the unique
ID number of the device is required
second a biometric feature or pin is
required to access this device for
example consider this implementation in
a smartphone the phone is locked and
only grants access after some biometric
of the user is provided like a facial
scan a fingerprint or Iris scan
therefore a potential hacker requires
both the device and the means of
accessing the device before gaining
authorization to engage with the company
resource the Microsoft authenticator app
is downloaded from the Microsoft store
and registered to an account for
authentication the user receives an
authentication code to this device used
during
authentication to access the application
they must first provide a biometric pin
or specific swipe pattern on each
attempt a notification is sent to the
user's phone to confirm the valid
verification attempt in this video you
discovered that traditional password and
usernames have setbacks as a result
Security Experts are moving away from
this to use more robust alternative
authentication methods in Azure
specifically you covered oath and
passwordless authentication such as
Windows hello for business V2 security
key and Microsoft authenticator
app Azure provides several
authentication methods to verify the
identity of entities attempting to
access the system previously you learned
that password less authentication is
gaining traction due to the recognized
limitations of traditional passwords and
usernames in this video you'll unpack
the various security features within
Microsoft Azure active directory offers
a relevant service called active
directory Federation services or
adfs this service enables the
authentication of various systems using
a single password it does this by
configuring a single sign on also known
as SSO once once this Central identity
provider or IDP confirms the identity of
the user then it serves as
authentication for all other Associated
systems the protocol used in this
exchange is security assertion markup
language or saml this approach offers
the Dual benefits of user convenience
and the reduction of the temptation to
rely on easily remembered insecure
passwords Azure ad additionally offers
Azure ad identity protection to
safeguard users and maintain vigilance
for malicious activities a cyber
specialist can choose from the following
three categories user risk responds when
a user's credentials are determined as
lost the dark web is continually
monitored for instances of hacker
credential drops signin risk responds to
suspicious login attempts this might be
a user repeatedly making failed attempts
to log in which might be indicative of a
Brute Force attack and MFA registration
policy occurs in the event of a risky
signin attempt
Azure ad can request the execution of an
MFA authentication request Azure ad
identity protection has a buil-in
flexibility that allows you to configure
three standards of vigilance when
monitoring these are low and above
medium and above or
high these three factors are also
referred to as risk-based
authentication if signals relating to a
user's use or authentication are found
to be deviant then the method of access
becomes more restrictive examples of
signals that are analyzed may include
the user's location the time of day and
the user's Behavior patterns let's take
this one step further by examining Azure
ad features for additional security
these include sms-based authentication
where users can access their accounts
without using usernames or passwords
this is achieved when an identity
administrator configures the account to
the user's phone number at the signin
prompt then open authentication
time-based onetime password or oath top
implements an open standard onetime
password or OTP for short that relies on
Hardware or software to generate onetime
codes at the end of a given time span
this is evident when opening the
Microsoft authenticator app that's
downloaded to your phone to add greater
security when accessing network
resources typically the app generates a
new code that is valid for a minute and
finally fast identity online or Pho
authentication is an overarching term
encompassing a variety of authentication
methods such as
Biometrics voo represents a standard
that harnesses public key cryptography
to establish a foundation of robust
authentication to recap cryptography
involves the art of transmitting
information securely allowing only the
authorized parties the sender and the
receiver to access the content of the
message this process ensures that any
interception during Transit would reveal
a distorted version of the original
message thus upholding its
confidentiality in pho's implementation
Hardware devices such as USB or
Bluetooth enable devices serve as the
authentication instruments for users
this distinctive characteristic augments
the security of Pho authentication
compared to traditional methods because
it eliminates the Reliance on shared
Secrets like passwords or tokens
although the potential exists for a
device to be stolen documented instances
of hacking attempts are fewer when
compared to traditional threats like
fishing or virtual Endeavors aimed at
compromising systems notably pho's
robustness is exemplified through
Solutions such as Azure ad password
lists an Azure ad service that empowers
users to gain access without traditional
passwords in this video you learned
about Azure security measures
specifically you realized how a
centralized identity provider can retain
authentication information for a user
which can be used on different sites
additionally as your identity protection
reacts using signals which can cause an
MFA to trigger you also covered various
authentication methods including Pho
which is an initiative that aims to
replace passwords in a secure and
flexible logon
approach by now you realize that
multiactor authentication or MFA is a
strong means of providing additional
security by acting as a secondary
security measure you may have a few
interesting questions about it such as
what triggers it and who should be
subject to it MFA is a powerful tool and
when coupled with risk-based access or
arbac and conditional access it can be
quite versatile in this video you will
learn about how MFA is used during
account access recovery you'll discover
how MFA is triggered and who it pertains
to recall that MFA is based on something
you know such as a password or pin
something you have such as a phone or ID
card or something you are such as
fingerprint recognition or facial
recognition MFA is configurable
depending on the version of azure you
subscribe to in the free version of
azure ad MFA is automatically configured
for every initial sign on but can be
integrated with finer detail with
different Azure editions for example the
P1 or P2 license allows you to combine
MFA with conditional
policies Azure offers a range of methods
such as text the authenticator app or
phone calls what then happens when an
individual loses a device through which
the authenticator app is used for MFA
well in this instance installing the
authentication app on a new device is
possible all app related settings get
stored in the cloud it is possible to
have multiple accounts stored for
example a a work and a personal account
Microsoft retains meta information about
your login including your username and
the account verification code to prove
your identity it does not store any
additional information such as email
addresses or files note that to back up
your account you will need either a
Microsoft or iCloud account you may be
wondering if you can combine MFA
configuration when setting up
self-service password reset also
commonly referred to as SSP
the good news is that this is indeed
possible remember that sspr is a means
for the user to reset passwords without
having to consult with the IT department
while configuring sspr you can use
various means to authenticate here are
some of the methods available to you you
can use any authenticator app including
Microsoft's or an alternative one use
your office or mobile phone then there's
the hardware token or PH2 security key
Keys lastly you can use a security
question which only applies to sspr this
is not available with MFA but
administrators have this option when
performing sspr Azure ad gives you the
option to make the process a single
authentication method MFA can also be
required in the event of a lost password
an administrator can manually reset the
MFA password in addition the
administrator can cause a
re-registration for MFA revoke MFA
sessions or delete the user's current
password so any user who is blocked from
using MFA can be released through an
administrator causing a
re-registration a user can increase the
security of an account by adding the
requirement of an additional
authentication step to do this you must
be an authentication administrator when
signing into the Azure portal next you
navigate to the users and all users then
select authentication methods under
authentication contact info you can then
select from either one of two
verification methods phone or email you
are then presented with a range of
additional authentication methods such
as phone alternate phone or email now
you can store these changes by selecting
save it is important to note that while
using an email as permissible for sspr
it cannot be used as the second
authentication factor to log in this is
due to the factor part in MFA recall
that if one factor is something you know
such as your login details then adding a
second Factor needs to be something you
have or something you are for sspr this
is not an issue because when it's
triggered a link is sent to the email
address in this video you learned that
Microsoft emphasizes MFA to keep
organization safe when MFA is integrated
with rbac and conditional access it
provides security and versatility MFA
and sspr can be integrated and
configured as one administrators are
responsible to manage user settings and
authentication methods and in the event
of an issue they have measures to prompt
resets finally MFA with the
authenticator app can be backed up in
the event of losing a device which saves
on having to create a new account or
triggering a
reset when a user attempts to access an
application it checks a series of
company policies to determine what
action to take a user can be accepted
blocked or allowed in with partial
access this process is known as
conditional access and in this video you
will examine how Azure active directory
allows for granular access based on the
criteria configured by the user access
administrator first let's explore the
components of a conditional access
policy conditional access is a feature
of azure ad that improves security by
providing additional authentication
measures before accessing certain
resources based on configurable signals
conditional access is triggered by if
then rules configured within the Azure
ad environment this set of rules is
referred to as a policy a policy is
tuned to detect various signals let's
examine these signals in more detail
Azure ad collects information about
users attempting to sign in such as
their username group membership and
assigned roles with user location the
geographical location from which the
user is attempting to sign in from is
considered unusual or unexpected sign-in
locations can be used to trigger
additional security measures such as
multiactor authentication or account
verifications Azure ad collects
information about the user's device such
as device type operating system and
whether the device is managed or
compliant and uses it to assess the
security posture it also uses risk
detection algorithms to analyze signin
patterns historical data and behavioral
anomalies to assess the likelihood of a
signin being compromised or risky with
network location information about the
network from which the user is signing
in such as the IP address or range is
used to evaluate the network security
when evaluating conditional access Azure
ad considers information about the
application or resource the user is
trying to access including the
sensitivity level of the app it also
analyzes the frequency and patterns of
user signin to detect suspicious
activities or Brute Force attack
attempts Azure ad assesses the health
and compliance status of the user's
device including whether the device is
upto-date and has security measures in
place finally Azure ad evaluates the
risk associated with the user's identity
based on their behavior activity and
potential exposure in previous security
breaches now that you understand the
components of a conditional access
policy let's explore exp how conditional
access Works after receiving a signal
that triggers a policy Azure ad prompts
multiactor authentication or MFA before
it allows access to a resource therefore
you can consider conditional access as a
secondary defense against intrusion
first you can create a policy that is
tuned to some signal such as application
or user location when the request for
Access is made there are three options
available allowing direct access
requesting MF or blocking access the
nature of the signal decides which
action is taken if the user fails to
provide appropriate MFA access is denied
conditional access policies are not
limited to preventing access you can
also configure them through a policy
granting only partial accessibility if
some factors are identified for example
a user who triggers a policy may be
prevented from copying or deleting
information from a document although
they are still allowed to read it you
can can also require more extensive
changes such as requiring that the
device is registered forcing a password
change or requesting that a user agrees
to the terms of use the requirements can
be for one or all of these factors to be
performed depending on the
configuration this can be particularly
useful when assigning roles to groups of
people a conditional policy could
prevent members of this group from
accessing information that has been
labeled sensitive or only allow them to
read a document you can view conditional
access policies in the Azure portal by
navigating to Azure ad tenant security
and selecting conditional access the
example demonstrates a list of policies
that have been established the insights
and Reporting option provides analytics
and data for policy usage signin risk
user behavior and policy impact to
enforce a behavior before people engage
with your application select terms of
use you can configure options for
specific users or groups and for
specific
applications there are some conditional
access policies such as requiring
multiactor authentication on signin for
all users configured as part of the
default
settings before creating custom policies
you must turn this off however this is
not possible with the free license if
you availed yourself of a trial license
and the time expires the policies you
created will be retained however after
the expiration of the trial you cannot
change them in this video you took a
deep dive into conditional access
policies you learned what a policy is
and that the signals a user creates when
engaged with the network trigger these
policies you also explored how to
configure policies to prompt the user to
make changes such as updating a password
or device finally you now know how to
use policies to allow deny or partially
allow a user to interact with the system
so so far you have learned that Azure is
an identity and access management tool
that aims to simplify managing who has
access to a system and what they can do
after they gain access a large part of
this involves breaking functionalities
and resources and grouping them into
smaller subsets you have also learned
how segmented access not only prevents
lateral Movement by hackers but also
provides a manageable view of related
resources in this video you will delve
into the concept of azure active
directory roles understand understanding
how they serve as an extension of this
practice you will also gain insight into
role-based access control or arbac Azure
ad roles are a set of permissions that
inform what action an identity takes on
a system as with other elements of azure
ad an identity can relate to a function
service or a user to begin let's examine
the templated roles you can use in Azure
ad templated roles are a set of
permissions that relate to a specific
role they are predefined and can be
assigned immediately using templated
roles as a scaffold you can create
custom roles and add or remove features
as needed this makes it easier to know
which department an entity is associated
with and to easily manage the
permissions they require let's explore
some examples of templated roles in
Azure ad in more detail firstly the
global administrator role has full
access to all administrative features
and resources within the Azure ad tenant
Global administrators can manage user
accounts configure settings and perform
administrative tasks across the entire
directory the user administrator role is
responsible for managing user accounts
it enables you to create update and
delete user accounts reset passwords and
manage user properties next the
application administrator role has
permissions to manage application
registrations in Azure
ad it enables you to create and
configure applications assign
permissions and manage application
settings
the device administrator role is
responsible for managing devices
registered in Azure ad it enables you to
join devices to Azure ad configure
device settings and manage device
related policies the Security
administrator role focuses on managing
security related features and settings
in Azure ad security administrators can
configure security policies review
security reports and manage identity
protection additionally the privileged
Ro administrator role is responsible for
managing privileged roles in Azure ad it
enables you to assign or revoke other
roles including administrative roles
with high level permissions another role
is compliance administrator which is
tasked with managing compliance related
features and settings in Azure ad it
enables you to configure compliance
policies and review compliance reports
next is the help desk administrator role
which is intended to handle password
resets and other common tasks related to
user accounts this role has limited
administrative permissions finally the
billing administrator role enables you
to manage billing related settings and
view billing information for the Azure
ad tenant the practice of controlling
access based on roles is known as arbac
now that you are up to speed on the
templated roles available in Azure ad
let's explore arbac Azure ad provides
the ability to assign roles to
individuals and groups this helps manag
access in broader Strokes instead of
configuring a role and assigning it
individually to a user you can create a
group and add a user to it and they will
inherit the permissions of the role in
Azure ad the practice is highest
privilege wins which means that
whichever role has more scope that is
what the user is then able to accomplish
the scope of the role relates to two
factors what the role can do and where
it can do it for example the role may
have permissions to read write delete
change configuration or assign new
instances scoping an arbac facilitates
you with a secure simple methodology
that also enables you to apply any
compliance requirements mandated by the
industry or country that your
organization is operating in in this
video you discovered how Azure ad roles
are a set of permissions that inform
what action an identity takes on a
system you learned about the templated
roles available in Azure ad and in which
instances they are applicable
you examined what a custom role is and
why someone would consider using it you
also explored the practice of
controlling access based on roles and
how the scope of the role determines
what it can do and where it can be done
if you're new to Azure you may find it a
little challenging to understand all the
different roles in Azure you are now
equipped with a greater understanding of
these roles and how you can use them in
your
organization in this video you will
learn about the advantages of the access
policy and management practices that
Azure active directory or ad provides
which strengthen an organization
security you will focus on role based
access control or arbac and conditional
access policies and explore how Azure ad
facilitates granular control the ability
to segment access to resources and the
resources themselves you will also
explore privileged identity management
or Pim first let's examine how you can
use arbac to enforce Security in your
organization
you discovered that by applying roles
you can enforce security with a uniform
approach the goal of arbac is to enforce
least privilege an identity should only
have access to the minimum number of
resources to achieve a goal it should
also only have access to these resources
for as long as they are required with so
many moving Parts in an organization
overseeing who is accessing what and
when is challenging Azure ad presents a
way of managing this by enabling you to
group related identities and apply a
blanket security approach to all of them
when the project associated with that
group is completed revoking access is a
simple process and you can reassign the
members to a new
project this makes arbac a simple
scalable tool for maintaining
consistency this uniform approach to
granting access is a huge Azure ad
policy advantage next let's explore how
Azure ad facilitates secure access by
providing conditional access policies
condition access policies are tuned to a
host of signals to ensure that you can
manage access safely however the primary
Gatekeepers are strong authentication
measures access controls and the
security perimeter mechanism multiactor
authentication or MFA is an example of
strong Access Control requiring two
factors before allowing access
segmentation firewalls and user scope
ensure that access is confined to a
small area of the network finally
gaining unauthorized access to your
network is prevented by Microsoft
Defender which guards all access points
on the perimeter conditional access is
the second line of defense and monitors
various identity signals to ensure that
no dangerous or deviant behavior is
performed after an identity is
authenticated as with roles Azure ad
offers a selection of templated
conditional statements that you can
apply to view them navigate to your home
directory and select security select
conditional access and create new from
template here you can learn more about
the available templates the templated
conditional access policies relate to
five distinct areas secure Foundation
zero trust remote work protect
administrator and emerging threats some
of the templated policies fall into
multiple categories for example the
require multiactor authentication for
admin's template is available in every
category bar emerging threats this means
that it is considered a safety policy
that addresses the majority of the
themes identified by selecting view you
can see summary information on the
policy including the section it pertains
to the targeted identity a list of
individuals affected the scope of the
policy and the action that it relates to
you can also use conditional access
policies to monitor certain parameters
after you configure an access policy you
can choose to have it report any signals
that trigger the action with enforcing
it now that you are familiar with
conditional access policies let's
examine privileged identity management
or Pim roles can be divided into five
general categories reader resource
specific custom contributor and owner
reader has the least number of
Privileges and owner has the greatest
including modifying access controls and
granting permissions an owner is
considered privileged as a result
therefore you should take Extra Care in
managing these influential roles
Microsoft promotes pin principles to be
enforced for these roles such as just in
time access or jit and just enough
access or Jaa jit and Jaa policies
mandate that when an identity wants to
use their privileged permissions they
must first activate them and only for a
limited time further checks are required
such as MFA to ensure that the identity
is accurately authenticated you now know
that Azure ad is a comprehensive tool
for protecting your
organization in this video you learned
how you can use arbac to take a uniform
approach to enforcing security and how
conditional access policies are tuned to
a host of signals to ensure that you can
manage access safely you also explored
the pin principles of jit and Jaa in
addition to providing the ability to
subdivide assets and workers Azure ad
also provides a host of good practices
and built-in tools that can Aid you in
creating a strong security
posture imagine you recently started a
new job within an organization as part
of your onboarding to this organization
the it Department issues you an email
address a password and the necessary
security access to specified
applications and folders you need to
perform Your Role but what happens if
you are promoted or moved to a different
role within the organization how can the
organization ensure you gain the access
you need and maintain it security
posture at the same time that is where
identity governance comes in in this
video you will focus on identity
security exploring how organizations
manage employees as they move through
various roles you will observe how
within the identity life cycle an
employee might move from one state to
another But ultimately only occupy one
state at any given time after starting
work you will also learn how this
connects with the access life cycle the
access life cycle focuses on providing
just enough access when required lastly
you'll switch your focus to privileged
identity management a concept applied to
identities with privileged access to
resources that need stricter security
let's start by exploring what exactly is
meant by identity governance Microsoft
has endeavored to address the changing
nature in which organizations operate by
addressing the distributed nature of
this modern corporate infrastructure you
might recall from previous lessons that
identity is the new corporate boundary
in fact if the identity of an entity
accessing the system can be
authenticated and appropriately
administered a secure corporate Network
can be safely maintained to best manage
an organization through identity there
are three key areas you should focus on
governing the identity life cycle
governing the access life cycle and
securing privileged access for
administrators these three guidelines
are applied to all entities in the
system you may recall that an entity can
be a person whether that's an employee
customer or collaborator it can also
relate to a device service or
application that needs to access or
assist the company resources breaking
this down further an organization must
confirm that the following questions are
being addressed do you know who or what
is using the system and have these
entities been appropriately
authenticated do you know what these
entities are doing on the system if you
have established that the entity is
entitled to operate within the network
are the actions The Entity is taking in
with what is expected and are they
beneficial to the business's needs next
are there effective organizational
controls that manage the entity's access
accessing and operating organizational
resources is a fluid process the goal of
the active directory is to provide
management options to companies so that
entities operating within the system can
be provided with what they need when
needed this means that the nature of the
access is constantly changing an
effective active directory can
dynamically move with what an entity
needs and only for as long as needed
lastly can the actions be audited a
common concept already put forward is to
assume a breach auditing is remaining
Vigilant to the actions of all entities
on the system maintaining accountability
in all entities enables an organization
to anticipate and mitigate the Fallout
from a breach you may recall that the
identity life cycle relates to an
employees actions from when they join
the company until the day they leave
according to this line of reasoning
since the employee will always be in a
single distinct State at any one moment
good governance requires understanding
what state of the employees life cycle
they are now in and if they have the
appropriate permissions to reflect this
state fundamentally an employee will
only move in three directions join leave
or move so an employee joining an
organization will be assigned a certain
degree of access this may be linked with
a given role that adheres to a template
or a custom template may be created
however ever potentially on completion
of a project or being promoted an
employee may move to a new role this may
impact their role and by association the
necessary permissions of the
organization finally the employee may
leave which will remove their
authorization you may recall that some
organizations link the person's identity
with a file in Human Resources through
workday or success factors by
integrating workday or success factors
applications into the identity life
cycle organizations can achieve
streamlined user management improved
security and enhanced compliance
ensuring companies have access to the
right resources at the right time
throughout their employment Journey it
should be noted that this is an Azure ad
premium account feature which is
referred to as Microsoft identity
manager other human resource systems
that are configurable are system
analysis program development or sap HCM
and Oracle people soft while the
identity life cycle manages the state
that the employee is in while employed
at the company the access life cycle
ensures that the resources appropriate
to an employees role are available as
the employee moves through the identity
life cycle this may include expanding
and resending access to some resources
in alignment with their current job role
maintaining and administrating employees
through their life cycle is key to
maintaining company security the greater
the employees role the more attention
needs to be focused on ensuring a good
security posture Azure ad comes with a
service known as privileged identity
management or Pim which provides
tailored features for securing access
rights you may recall that Pim is a P2
feature that has many functions
including privileged role assignment
just in time access and time bound
access this video introduced you to
several important fundamentals that
underpin how identity management is
structured You Now understand that an
employee will have a clear working State
when employed at an organization this
state should be linked directly to how
and what they can access it's crucial to
remember that when an employee gains
sufficient access to influence many
resources their access point should be
closely monitored as a compromised
privileged identity can pose a risk to
an
organization suppose you are a remote
employee trying to access your company's
resources from an unfamiliar location
using your own laptop such a scenario
could present challenges to the
infrastructure of your company for for
instance an unidentified machine or an
unexpected login might be an indication
of a Cyber attack so how should the
company react this is where Azure ad
identity protection comes into play this
identity Protection Program will detect
a sign in anomaly due to the login being
performed at a different location from
your normal workplace and will flag an
infrequent device usage alert because
you usually access company resources
from your office laptop based on these
factors it's likely asure ad ident
identity protection will declare you as
high risk for your signin attempt in
this video you'll explore Azure ad
identity protection and learn how it
offers additional security to
organizations in these types of
scenarios you'll discover how this
service ensures that the identity being
authenticated by your active directory
has not been compromised and how it
analyzes signals and Compares them to a
datab base of events that it has
gathered through years of
analysis furthermore to provide a full s
of security safeguards these signals are
also fed into other Microsoft Services
let's first discover why Azure identity
detection was created in the first place
it was created to achieve three distinct
tasks to discover and mitigate against
identity-based attacks to extract data
from the portal and use it to
investigate potential threats and to
amalgamate and Export the data to third
party applications for further analysis
Microsoft has a broad and diverse user
base through years of analyzing signals
generated from their services they have
developed a sophisticated approach to
identifying risk services that have
generated these signals include Azure ad
the identity cloud-based access
management system you investigated in
the last few lessons Microsoft accounts
these are various personal accounts
registered with Microsoft a list of such
accounts would include any outlook.com
one drive or Microsoft Office
applications and Xbox a game platform
where you can interact with other users
online The Continuous analysis of over 6
trillion signals has enabled Microsoft
to identify and mitigate cyber threats
proactively these signals are First Fed
into the identity Protection Program
once analyzed the signals are
categorized and can then be fed into
various security tools such as Sentinel
which detects General Security threats
or Defender which you may recall is a
comprehensive antivirus and malware tool
based on the signals received identity
protection users are also assigned one
of the three tiers of classification low
medium and high additionally signals are
transmitted to conditional access
policies where they go through the
specific vetting needed for a particular
tenant or service over the past several
years Microsoft has gathered a list of
clearly discernable risks first is
anonymous IP addresses this could be a
toor browser or an anonymized VPN using
these browsers can indicate that a
hacker is attempting to gain illicit
entry and in the process hide the source
of their attack next is atypical travel
which generates a risk signal if there
is a large distance between two
geographical logins while this could be
an employee traveling it can also
indicate a hacker from another continent
is attempting to gain access typically
this would trigger multiactor
authentication or MFA to confirm that
the authentication request is legitimate
next is a malware linked address this
this is an accumulated list of infected
IP addresses from previous hacks that
have been a benefit from the years of
research performed by Microsoft you also
have unfamiliar signin which similar to
a typical travel generates a risk signal
when a login comes from a location with
which the user is not normally
Associated the distinction is that it
does not have to be a large geographical
distance from the user's typical
authentication locations last is
password spray which occurs when a bogus
or simple password is used on several
different accounts Azure ad threat
intelligence is a service provided by
Microsoft that will address many of
these risks the occurrences outlined may
result from a hack some reasonable
deviation or disruption to an authentic
authentication attempt however in
employing identity Protection Services
two outcomes can be availed of first
leaked credential detection is when an
organization can consult a leaked email
database gathered from the dark web or
paste sites and second access to Azure
threat intelligence which is a machine
trained model that becomes effective
after training on sufficient data this
model can accurately identify instances
where a user's activity pattern deviates
significantly indicating a potential
risk this accuracy is only attained with
large amounts of accurate training data
identity detection is only triggered
when a legitimate user credential is
used for example when you enter a
correct username or email address
address regardless of the password the
system does not process misspelled or
non-existent user credentials on
completion of a risk assessment the
identity Protection Service will output
three categories risky user which
relates to users or identities within an
organization their activity will be
flagged as warranting further
investigation risky signin this will be
a list of attempt
authentications it can include logins at
unusual times or from unusual locations
and risk detectors which amasses all
identity related risk events and
presents them as a comprehensive catalog
of unusual or deviant Behavior this
video took you on an exploration of
Microsoft's identity Protection Service
you learned how the service operates
using signal analysis which then
categorizes its users and highlights any
risks to an organization you also
explored several risks that Microsoft
has categorized throughout the years
using identity protection and discovered
how Microsoft uses a threat intelligence
learning model to identify users
activity
patterns through this week's learning
you explored several beneficial
characteristics of azure active
directory including its various identity
Services its capabilities regarding
authentication and its access management
capabilities to assist you in the study
checks ahead let's take some time to
explore the key elements you have
learned during this week you began by
learning about the various
authentication methods and azure
you discovered how Security Experts are
moving to Alternative authentication
methods in Azure specifically you
covered oath and passwordless
authentication such as Windows hello for
business PH2 security key and Microsoft
authenticator app you then took a closer
inspection of multiactor authentication
or MFA and discovered that it is an
alternative authentication method to the
traditional one-step password you took
this a step further by learning how MFA
is used used during account access
recovery and how when MFA is integrated
with risk-based access and conditional
access it provides additional security
and versatility after learning about the
benefits of MFA you unpacked
self-service password resets which
included the various changes it allows
and how different Microsoft Azure
licenses allow different self-service
password reset sspr
functionality you also discovered
different changes that sspr allows which
which include changing and resetting
passwords as well as unlocking blocked
accounts following this you gained an
understanding of why there has been a
move toward passwordless authentication
due to issues arising from using
passwords as your sole gatekeeper you
should note that Azure password
protection service provides protection
by monitoring password selection and
analyzing the behavior of users in order
to generate security
reports next you examined how user
access administrator configured criteria
may be used by Azure ad to provide
granular decision points you also
explored conditional access policies
gained knowledge of what these policies
are and discovered how the signals you
produce when interacting with the
network can trigger these policies you
also explored how you can configure
these policies so that they prompt a
user to make a change such as to a
password or update a device following
this you explored the benefits of azure
aent roles learning about the templated
roles available in Azure ad and in which
instances they are applicable within
this section you also learned what a
custom role is and why someone would
consider using it and explored the
practice of controlling access based on
roles you gained insights into what
roles are how they fit into a larger
Network and which roles are associated
with which domain you now know that
Azure ad is a comprehensive tool for
protecting your
organization you then continued your
journey by focusing on role-based access
control and how you can use arbac to
take a uniform approach to enforcing
security you may recall that conditional
access policies are tuned to a host of
signals to ensure that you can manage
access safely remember that in addition
to providing the ability to subdivide
assets and workers Azure ad also
provides a host of good practices and
built-in tools that can Aid you in
creating a strong security posture the
fin final section this week introduced
you to several important topics that
described how identity management is
structured you first focused on identity
security and explored how organizations
manage employees through various roles
remember within the identity life cycle
an employee will only exist in one state
after starting work you also explored
the concept of privileged identity
management or Pim Pim is applied to
identities with privileged access to
resources that need stricter security
it's crucial to remember that when an
employee gains sufficient access to
influence many resources their access
point should be closely monitored as a
compromised privileged identity can pose
a risk to an organization next you
investigated entitlement management
learning how the mechanism of access
reviews AIDS Management in overseeing
the Privileges that have been granted to
an employee you took a deep exploration
of pin's various characteristics and
discovered how it links to your earlier
discoveries regarding the access life
cycle you continued your week with an
exploration of Microsoft's identity
Protection Service you discovered how
the service operates using signal
analysis which then categorizes its
users and highlights any risks to your
organization you also discovered how
Microsoft uses a threat intelligence
learning model to identify users
activity
patterns you should note that the
identity Protection Service is available
to Microsoft clients through the Azure
ad premium P2 license lastly you took a
closer look at the many benefits and
best practices for identity governance
these best practices focused on using
Azure ad to effectively manage access
you studied how to manage user access
through solid identity management and
the best practices for accessing company
Resources by application and devices
with the knowledge gained this week you
are now equipped with the tools to take
on the study checkpoint keeping up with
the ever Evol solving software and
applications that are available will be
a challenge but by continuing your
Learning Journey Through the various
tools available to you in this course
and evolving to the current cyber
security Trends you can remain at The
Cutting Edge of cyber
crime in recent times the frequency and
complexity of denial of service or dos
attacks and distributed denial of
service or dos attacks has increased
these attacks can cause severe damage to
organizations disrupting their
operations and often causing Financial
losses to combat this threat Microsoft
Azure offers a comprehensive DDOS
protection
solution in this video you will learn
more about dos attacks and how dods
attacks grew in response to the initial
defenses against them you will also
explore different types of Dos attacks
which can be distinguished by the part
of the network that they target finally
you will gain insight into the different
Azure ad based solutions to these
attacks
first let's examine dos and dos attacks
in more detail in recent years there has
been a noticeable shift in how
organizations structure their
architecture for example a hybrid
solution consists of some on premises
resources configured with a cloud hosted
resource store as your on premises and
cloud-based resources interact to
provide a front-facing service for your
customers it results in an increase in
traffic this has led to an increase in
the surface space from which cyber
criminals can launch an attack one such
attack is a Dos attack where a hacker
attempts to overwhelm the resources for
your application by making repeated
requests from your network excessive
traffic can lead to your service
becoming slow or
unresponsive initially organizations
combed dos attacks by identifying the IP
address of the requestor making the
attack
ineffective these attacks have since
evolved into a dods where the hacker
commands many IP addresses which are
used to bombard your system there are
three types of Dos attacks firstly
volumetric attacks are achieved by
flooding the network with legitimate
traffic consuming all bandwidth you can
measure this type of attack in bits per
second next protocol attacks are aimed
at the server and involve false protocol
requests to Target the
infrastructure this impacts how the
network layer or layer three and the
transport layer layer 4
communicate you can measure these
attacks in packets per second finally
resource layer attacks focus on web
application packets disrupting data
transmission between hosts it is
important to be aware of the dangers
posed by these attacks to mitigate
potential risks you can use Azure to
protect your network by analyzing
incoming traffic and discarding anything
that looks like it might be part of a
dods attack Microsoft Azure provides
various dods solutions that you you can
use to protect your network
infrastructure let's examine them in
more detail Additionally you can use
Azure to scale up resources and increase
your capacity during an attack with
scaling you can maintain your
organization's efficacy while
identifying and eliminating the risk
Azure provides three services to protect
against dos attacks firstly there is
default dos infrastructure protection it
is included with a free package at no
extra cost and provides continuous
monitoring and mitigation of traffic on
your network next is Dos Network
protection which is a more advanced
service available under service level
agreement or SLA it is designed to work
with best practices which Microsoft can
advise and direct you to enable dods
Network protection offers several
advantages over the default
infrastructure level dos protection
including additional features such as
logging alerting and
Telemetry this enables you to gain more
comprehensive insights and monitoring
capabilities to better detect and
respond to Dos attack attempts finally
there is Dos IP protection which is a
paper protected IP model this granular
feature enables you to select which end
points to protect and can help to offset
costs by only protecting critical
resources it contains the same core
capabilities associated with DOs Network
protection but with some additional
features such as dods rapid respon resp
support a dedicated division at hand
when a Dos
occurs this results in a quicker
turnaround than the other options
another feature is cost protection which
can limit The Fallout from an attack dos
IP protection may offer discounts on web
application firewall or Waf usage awaf
helps protect web applications from
various cyber threats and could provide
additional layers of security when
integrated with DOs IP
protection in this video you learned
about dos attacks and how they have
evolved into dos attacks you also
learned about the three types of dods
attacks the various Solutions available
in Azure ad to combat them and the
licensing and payment models they are
included with with Azure dods protection
you can focus on your business and not
worry about the effects of Dos
attacks a well-designed firewall acts as
a critical security barrier for your
data and resources examining incoming
and outgoing data to protect valuable
assets from unauthorized
access by now you've learned quite a bit
about how firewalls accomplish this
important task but there's more to it
than simply creating rules to manage
traffic flow through your network it
also considers factors such as
scalability high availability and other
factors to ensure comprehensive security
for your Azure
environment over the next few minutes
you'll deepen your understanding of
firewalls by exploring best practices
for configuration the features
associated with a secure Central
firewall implementation and how
firewalls can contribute to strong
security posture that supports
segmentation first let's examine a brief
overview of azure
firewall Azure firewall is a cloud-based
service that is centrally managed and
designed to protect your Azure virtual
Network in this context managed means
that Azure as the cloud provider Bears
the responsibility of ensuring the
firewalls effec iess overseeing its
day-to-day operations and maintenance so
what responsibilities do you have and
what control can you exert over this
service well you can enhance security
significantly by implementing a few best
practices in the firewall
configuration for instance while it's
true that an Azure firewall can be
deployed on any network best practices
recommend creating a central Network and
routing all additional networks through
this principle one firewall s extend
beyond regulating traffic entering and
leaving an application they are also
used to enforce segmentation and can be
applied to each individual virtual
Network this ensures that traffic is not
only restricted in and out of
applications but also between resources
this is achieved by limiting the
bandwidth of IP addresses that are
allowed to access an area or application
for example a network exclusively
dedicated to hosting a firewall can act
as a Central Gateway for filtering
traffic rather than setting up a
firewall for each Network all traffic
passes through the Central Gateway first
what's more this can include on premises
traffic before engaging with cloud-based
resources or the internet in general by
configuring your network this way you
gain several key advantages but that's
not all there are several key features
that further enhance the capabilities of
azure firewall as with many cloud-based
resources Azure firewall offers the
inherent advantage of scaling up based
on traffic demands the advantages of
scalability depend heavily on the nature
of your business for example an
organization that conducts a seasonal
trade or experiences traffic Peaks will
place greater emphasis on scalability
than an organization with a steady more
measured access pattern Microsoft takes
the responsibility of ensuring constant
Network availability to achieve this
failover safety measures are implemented
that maintain red instances across
various geographical
locations failover means that if an
issue that affects your service delivery
arises Microsoft ensures that a backup
takes the slack with configurability and
filtering you can customize the firewall
and apply filtering based on various
criteria including IP addresses ports
protocols and fully qualified domain
names or as it's known
fqdns this granular level of filtering
allows for for precise traffic
management which means you can exclude
General domain names such as social
media sites administrators can control
external threat actors more effectively
by choosing specific ports or protocols
source and destination Network address
translation capabilities or snat and
dnat facilitate communication between
the internal Network and the external
World snat ensures that outgoing traffic
from the virtual Network appears to
originate from a single public IP
address while datat translates incoming
internet traffic to the appropriate
private IP address within the virtual
Network this translation and filtering
process facilitates seamless and secure
communication between the virtual
Network and the broader internet while a
destination typically has just one IP
address Azure firewall allows multiple
IP addresses to be associated with one
destination Microsoft threat
intelligence is a service that collects
evidence of cyber attacks and hacking
activities this can help with load
balancing traffic segmentation and
outbound
communication this data is processed by
the Microsoft intelligence team to
create actionable insights these
insights are then integrated into
various Microsoft services like Defender
and Sentinel allowing these systems to
learn from a wide range of attacks even
if they weren't directly targeted at a
specific
organization this collective learning
enhan en es the security of
organizations using Microsoft
Services finally integration with Azure
monitor AIDS in analyzing and monitoring
traffic both a preventative measure and
a means of sealing future
vulnerabilities through the insights
gained these key features of azure
firewall further Elevate its
capabilities by understanding the
significance of a centrally managed
firewall and embracing key practices
such as deploying it on a central
Network and leveraging segmentation you
can Empower your network with a unified
streamline security
approach having delved into the best
practices of firewall configuration and
understanding the features of a secure
Central firewall implementation you may
be wondering what's next this video
delves deeper into Microsoft azure's
firewall offerings including basic
standard and premium service plans to
further embed your understanding of
firewalls by the end of this video
you'll have more insight into the
practical application of firewalls and
will be able to discern when a specific
option is
preferable a firewall is a key element
in any defensive strategy like Old City
walls it fortifies a network and directs
traffic to a few heavily guarded access
points the Azure firewall is a
cloud-based implementation that allows
you to protect your virtual assets it
meticulously monitors and filters
packets traversing your network
enhancing security while simplifying
traffic flow azure offers three firewall
options Azure firewall basic is well
suited to medium-sized businesses with
few virtual machines and low data
throughput typically it handles less
than 250 megabits per second Azure
firewall standard on the other hand is a
more advanced offering designed for
companies with high throughput and
fluctuating traffic volumes
accommodating both low and high peak
times it includes scaling allowing a
company to acquire more bandwidth when
traffic is high and can handle traffic
volumes of up to 30
gbps it offers protection from OSI
layers 3 to 7 which covers the
application to the network layer
additional extras include threat
intelligence domain name system or DNS
proxy and web categories threat
intelligence used for threat detection
is derived from Microsoft's threat
intelligence feed this feed Aggregates
information from diverse sources
including Microsoft's security team and
under goes regular updates
finally Azure firewall premium provides
comprehensive cover for organizations
with sensitive data such as banking
information or Private health records it
boasts Advanced threat detection
capabilities and can handle a throughput
of up to 100 gigabyt per second with
various options available how can you
determine the best plan for your
organizational needs to help make an
informed decision let's delve deeper
into the features the standard and
premium plans offer
enabling the Azure firewall standard
package provides a set of essential
features to enhance your network
security it lets you identify and filter
malicious actors using fully qualified
domain names also known as
fqdns IP addresses or URLs it also
provides a DNS proxy but what does this
mean exactly to understand the benefits
of this feature let's first understand
what a DNS is DNS is short for domain
name system and as the term suggests it
represents a named location for a
website DNS resolution is when you map
the DNS to an IP address this is like
converting a postal address to a post
code a DNS proxy will cach the results
of these requests so that subsequent
requests can be read before querying the
name online this speeds up DNS
resolution the intermediatory can block
malicious domains and the junction where
cont content is filtered web
categorization is another feature of the
standard package which allows you to
block content based on categories this
can be used to enforce company policies
like preventing access to social media
sites so quat sets Azure premium apart
from the standard edition Azure premium
offers two additional features that can
bolster a company's defense the first is
TLS or transport layer security
inspection which decrypts incoming and
outgoing information inspecting it for
malicious content using certificates it
can verify the authenticity of
communications between two
applications any information found to be
suspicious is not forwarded to the
destination preventing potential harm
the second is a robust intrusion
detection and prevention system or idps
that facilitates the monitoring logging
reporting and blocking of malicious
actions it provides rapid detection by
identifying bites sequences that are
known patterns for malicious agents
Azure premium provides access to
sequence patterns for actual malware
command and control exploit kits and
various forms of malicious activity
setting itself apart from other firewall
additions it employs over 50,000 rules
associated with 50 categories in
identifying these threats in addition to
monitoring tls-based interactions it
conducts thorough scans of all ports and
protocols used to in non-encrypted
traffic each signature can be configured
to disable alert or deny making the idps
feature flexible to your
needs if a signature produces a false
positive due to a known characteristic
of an organization's application it can
be
demarcated this customization helps
eliminate overly frequent false warnings
which can generate a lot of noise and a
log having examined the three tiers
Microsoft offers you should now possess
a more developed understanding of the
distinct features each tier brings to
the table this deeper Insight empowers
you to make informed decisions based on
your specific needs and
preferences when a resource is accessed
externally from a network you can call
the public IP address and access the
resource you can choose an appropriate
port and use an appropriate protocol to
make the request enabling this mechanism
also presents a wouldbe hacker with an
opening to attack your system in this
this video you will learn how you can
use Azure Bastion to strengthen this
point of entry into your system you will
also learn about just in time access a
good practice metric that you can apply
to your system to further strengthen
your security posture first let's
examine granting external access using
remote desktop protocol or RDP and
secure shell or
SSH you can reduce accessibility to your
network by configuring the firewall and
creating network security groups or nsgs
and introducing filtering and exclusion
rules however you also need to ensure
that your network is accessible to the
appropriate authenticated external
entities a traditional approach for
granting external access to Virtual
machines or VMS is to use the RDP or SSH
protocols typically the reserve ports
for this entry are 3389 and 22
respectively like a window or door in
your home RDP and SS H are points of
weakness in a system as they offer a
potential hacker a point of entry to
gain entry to a system hackers are known
to attempt methods including fishing
attacks for passwords Brute Force
attacks for common passwords and
man-in-the-middle attacks and other
vulnerabilities that arise as the
technology
matures your operating system typically
determines which approach you use with
RDP most commonly associated with
Windows and SSH with Linux operating
system
now that you are aware of the potential
weaknesses of RDP and SSH let's explore
how you can use Azure Bastion to
strengthen your external
access Bastion is a fully managed
platform as a service or P that you can
provision to communicate safely with
your VMS once logged into Azure ad a
user must clear some nsgs before
requesting access from Bastion then they
are authenticated through Azure Bastion
and again through another NSG before
they are granted access to a VM basan is
fully managed by Azure which means that
Microsoft is responsible for patching
and maintenance it provides a secure
means of accessing VMS hosted on the
network without exposing SSH or rgp
ports or creating an IP address for your
vmms as well as covering all VMS on the
network it also provides a secure means
of accessing any peered
networks next let's explore just in time
access previously you examined the
defense in depth by creating layers of
obstacles to prevent direct access to
your VMS another layer that reflects a
strong security posture is enabling just
in time access Defender for cloud
facilitates a lockdown that always
prevents all access to Ports outlined in
the
configuration therefore to prevent
access using RDP you must configure a
policy to deny access to Port 3389
when access is required to these ports
you must expressly specify them with a
lower priority number and apply a time
constraint recall that a lower numeric
value indicates a higher priority just
in time access enables you to exert
greater control over who can access a
resource and how they can access it
primarily you can configure just in time
access for assets that are of high value
to a hacker therefore when a user wants
to gain access they must first make a
request it is considered good practice
that this request notifies a group of
responsible employees that access is
required the request must include a
justification as to why the user
requires access to this area of the
network this provides a mechanism
through which you can apply additional
monitoring to various
resources when you create a VM you can
Implement a policy to ensure that just
in time access is required and list who
is notified when a request is made you
can configure outbound and inbound rules
to determine which Port is used how long
the port remains open and an approved
list of permissible IP addresses to
access this resource before enabling
access to a VM Defender checks the users
aure ro-based access control or arbac
permissions to access that given machine
after the arbac is verified Defender
configures the NSG and Azure firewall to
enable access from a verified IP address
r to a given port for a prescribed time
period when this period elapses the
previous no entry rules are reinstated
and access to all VMS is
denied in this video you expanded your
knowledge of how to protect your network
resources you examined the potential
weaknesses of RDP and SSH and how you
can use Azure Bastion to create an
initial safe entry point to connect with
your existing resources and strengthen
your external access
you have gained an understanding of how
ports IP addresses and protocols connect
with the resource and why they must be
safeguarded understanding a company's
Cloud security posture involves
evaluating its strategies for detecting
preventing and mitigating online threats
in the past few weeks you've delved into
various Microsoft services to equip
yourself with the knowledge needed to
confidently navigate this landscape
tools like Microsoft Defender secur
scores security benchmarks Bastion and
Security baselines in Azure have been
part of your toolkit alongside you've
explored Essential Best Practices like
multiactor authentication just in time
access and just enough access threats to
an organization and methods for
combating them are always evolving some
threats involve exploiting new attack
vectors also known as zero day attacks
While others are achieved through
exploiting a known vulnerability now now
let's deepen this understanding by
delving into Cloud security posture
management these vulnerabilities can
occur because the latest patch was not
implemented or due to a misconfiguration
of the system Cloud security posture
management or cspm for short is the
suite of tools that are available for
you to strengthen the management of
security implemented by your company as
an aspiring cyber security specialist
you must be informed of the different
metrics tools configurations and
potential threats they defend against
many of these are related to mitigation
offsetting any attack as quickly as
possible after it occurs this is why
Microsoft has created a host of services
that when configured correctly will
automatically alert designated people
when a vulnerability or breach has been
discovered cspm is about efficiently
using these tools to remain Vigilant to
the potential dangers open to your
system now let's explore a few key
Concepts that underpin the value offered
by
cspm the first is implementing the key
principles of the zero trust model as
the name suggests zero trust means
holding a healthy suspicion of all
identities regardless of how they access
the
system while a traditional approach to
network security would consider the
checks on Entry sufficient the zero
trust model Advocates further monitoring
of identities on the system and a
real-time analysis of their actions for
any sign of inappropriate behavor
Behavior realtime risk scoring is
another crucial component that involves
continuously evaluating entities and
devices in the system the risk scoring
is computed on properties associated
with The Entity such as location device
health established access patterns and
user Behavior additionally it considers
the nature of the information the
identity is accessing if an identity
starts accessing sensitive information
in a manner outside of their normal
access Behavior
it triggers an alert this prompts
designated it Specialists to investigate
and determine if preventative action is
required threat and vulnerability
management or TVM for short relates to
comprehensively understanding the
systems strengths and
weaknesses you're likely familiar with
the common phrase knowing the attack
surface which refers to vulnerable areas
within the company an example of such
vulnerability is the secure shell
protocol specific specifically Port 22
that provides a means for external
control over a virtual machine Bastion a
product of TVM addresses this potential
access point by wrapping it eliminating
the need for an internet facing IP
address that attackers might scan for
using an openport scanner TVM looks
beyond individual elements like this
offering a holistic view of the entire
system and considering how the
interactions of the various components
might create potential access
vectors finally cspm relates to a
comprehensive approach to Security
Management that includes modeling the
potential threats in conjunction with
other tools these tools include
vulnerability scanning penetration
testing security risk assessments
security controls implementation or
compliance auditing evolving threats are
constantly bombarding cyber based
resources giving rise to new attack
vectors and Innovations to
circumnavigate defensive structures
fortunately Innovative defense
strategies such as cspm highlighted in
this video are actively deployed and
response to these challenges but cspm
goes beyond the types of attacks or
tools used to defend a system it
emphasizes the mindset needed when
constructing a defensive posture on that
note it's important to remember that you
must think not only of current threats
but of the potential future threats and
how best to prevent them through the use
of its continuous monitoring
capabilities Microsoft Defender can
detect and underline potential threats
to an organization's security posture
this video will demonstrate how it
provides Advanced detection capabilities
continuous monitoring compliance
suggestions and
reviews Microsoft Defender is a
prominent Cloud security posture
management or cspm tool that protects
Cloud on premises or hybrid environments
Defenders comp prehensive defense
strategy focuses on three key areas
continuous assessment strengthening
security and defensive
capabilities a cyber analyst's job is
never done once defenses are correctly
configured every aspect must be
continuously monitored in real time to
ensure that no breach has or can occur
Defender Works to strengthen the
security of the organization's devices
and systems it goes beyond basic
security by strengthening security
measures and interactions between
different devices this makes it more
challenging for cyber threats to
infiltrate the network or
infrastructure Microsoft Defender not
only identifies security threats but
also takes proactive actions it can
actively respond to and resolve any
active threats detected on protected
resources this includes automated or
manual actions providing organizations
with timely alerts and the means to
mitigate potential harm so in addition
addition to being a proactive cspm tool
Defender also safeguards Cloud workloads
this protection extends to a range of
network assets including storage
Computing and communication devices so
now you might be wondering how exactly
does Defender work to fulfill this vital
role to put it into context think of
Defender as a central hub for
establishing a strong security posture
it provides a single unified platform
where different Services can be
configured for protecting workloads and
adhering to regulatory
requirements what more it assesses and
mediates events by applying Azure policy
which consists of a set of rules
designed to enforce specific company
priorities another important service
that Defender provides is hardening
let's explore what this means as you've
learned a sub network security can be
enhanced through the use of network
security groups or
nsgs an NSG will wrap a network and a
Associated resources behind an
additional protective shield composed of
inbound and outbound rules however there
are instances where exceptions may be
necessary when creating these rule sets
Defender examines the implemented
policies and rules exceptions to
identify those that are no longer
required the rationale behind this is to
close potential loopholes that might
have been left open for convenience
thereby preventing potential
vulnerabilities this practice is known
known as hardening as it strengthens the
virtual perimeter Microsoft Defender
offers different solutions including one
tailored to protect Office 365 endpoints
and iot
devices Microsoft Defender for cloud is
geared towards cspm focusing on
visibility by creating an awareness of
your current security posture it also
offers guidance by suggesting the
various elements that can improve your
security posture Defender uses a sec
score to achieve this assessing the risk
status of your resources subscriptions
and overall Network and generating a
score that reflects the security level
the onscreen example displays a
Microsoft cloud security score
identifying 60 points with 35 points
achieved resulting in an overall score
of
58% it provides a recommended status
indicating completed control of the
security best practices that have been
completely implemented the example also
includes completed recommendations
offering a detailed breakdown of
Suggestions by item furthermore it
generates a py graph illustrating the
overall resource Health depicting 1,500
unhealthy resources 1,300 healthy and an
additional 215 resources not included in
the
analysis additionally it generates
interactive tables that allow you to
drill into each problem area these
tables out line the Improvement that can
be achieved and quantify the impact on
company resources resulting from
implementing the suggested
changes another notable feature of cloud
Defender is its Cloud workload
protection this capability allows the
cloud to detect address and resolve
threats to company resources workloads
and services it's important to note that
the effectiveness of Defender
capabilities and protections depends on
the specific plan selected for a given
resource and subscription this video
highlights the significance of Microsoft
Defender for establishing a solid
security
posture by now you should understand how
Defender can identify underlying threats
in an organization security posture
through its continuous monitoring
security and defensive
capabilities it provides recommendations
on existing policies investigates
compliance and outputs a detailed
analysis of network resources these
insights can then strengthen the network
security against future
attacks you've explored the
functionalities of Microsoft defender in
a broader context but how does it
practically apply to your resources
Defender provides a comprehensive
service offering with the adaptability
to configure on a per resource basis to
demonstrate how this works this video
will walk you through how Defender can
be harnessed for a specific resource to
begin configuring Defender for this
purpose navigate to a specific resource
from the resource
dashboard on selecting Defender a range
of options become available for the
specific resource like a virtual machine
so what do these resource specific
options entail let's learn more first of
all Microsoft Defender may offer ongoing
recommendations to enhance the security
or performance of the selected resource
the security alert feature lets you view
any alerts or notifications related to
the resource providing insight into
potential security threats or breaches
just in time or jit access control
options may be available allowing you to
control and restrict access to the
resource as needed you can access
detailed information about the resource
including configuration details usage
statistics and more the severity score
indicates the criticality of any
security issues or alerts associated
with the resource helping you prioritize
actions finally you can view a
comprehensive list of security incidents
and alerts related to the selected
resource helping you Monitor and respond
to security events it's important to
note that recommendations come with
additional
information in addition to the severity
score Defender offers insight into the
issue and proposes possible
solutions moreover you can select the
recommendation item and decide whether
to exempt the recommendation from the
score drill into the policy definition
or open a query one option is to exempt
or disregard the specific recommendation
related to the error from affecting the
overall security score you might choose
this if you believe the error is not
critical or if you have an alternative
mitigation strategy in place another
option is to drill into the policy
definition this means you access the
detailed configuration settings and
parameters of the security policy that
governs vulnerability scanning this
allows you to review and adjust the
policy to ensure that vulnerability
scanning is correctly configured you can
also open a a query in this context a
query typically refers to running a
search or inquiry within the defender
system to gather more information about
the error this can help you identify the
root cause of the vulnerability scanning
issue and take appropriate corrective
actions if you choose to drill into the
policy definition you can configure the
policy under several criteria the basics
section typically includes fundamental
settings and information related to the
policy it often covers ENT details such
as the policy name description and
Target scope which refers to resources
the policy applies to in this section
you usually set up the basic framework
for your policy the advanced tab
contains more in-depth and fine grain
settings for the policy it allows you to
configure specific parameters and
conditions that govern the behavior of
the policy this section allows you to
customize the policy to meet your
organization's security or compliance
requirements in the parameters section
you configure specific criteria and
conditions the policy should check for
for example suppose the policy is about
vulnerability scanning in that case you
might Define the criteria for what is
considered a vulnerability including
severity levels common vulnerabilities
and exposure identities or other
attributes then in the remediation
section you define actions to take when
the policy detects non-compliance or
security issues this is where you set up
automated responses or instructions for
addressing
violations remediation actions might
include isolating a resource triggering
an alert or initiating a workflow to
patch or update
software you also have the option to
configure non-compliance messages or
notifications that should be displayed
or sent when a resource is found to be
non-compliant with the
policy these messages often inform
administrators or users about the issues
and the steps they should take take to
rectify them note that scope and policy
management refers to the resources or
assets the policy applies to this can
include specific virtual machines
servers databases or other resources
subject to the policy's rules and
checks you can specify the scope to
include or exclude specific resources
ensuring the policy is applied where
needed in this video you delved into the
various resource specific options
Microsoft Defender provides
from recommendations and security alerts
to jit access controls and detailed
information Defender equips you with a
robust set of tools for enhancing the
security and performance of your
resources building on your exploration
of Microsoft Defender and its practical
applications for securing individual
resources it's time to discuss another
crucial aspect of fortifying your
organization's cyber security posture in
this video you'll focus on the
instrument m al role of the Microsoft
security
Benchmark this Benchmark also known as
mcsb serves as a Cornerstone for
organizations seeking to implement
microsoft-based products with a
structured and secured approach a
company can create policies that are
tailored to their unique needs but they
can also borrow from the experiences of
other companies mcsb is a central source
that documents every policy advancement
that Microsoft develops through
experience with different products
this video will include a sample product
with a breakdown of the various aspects
of that policy you will tie this new
knowledge with what you have already
learned showcasing how Microsoft
Defender uses these policies when
evaluating a company's security posture
the Microsoft security Benchmark is a
comprehensive framework providing
organizations with best security
practices and guidelines for securing
their Microsoft based products and
services it covers various security
domains with specific recommendations
controls and
configurations for each domain covered
you can find a list of standard best
practices to implement these are the
security baselines that the
administrator of that sector should
Implement many organizations leverage
Microsoft Azure for deploying and
developing their services seeking
optimal security standards Microsoft
security Benchmark was developed for
this purpose this comprehensive set of
security best practi and guidelines for
protecting systems and data ensures that
Azure users are informed about the
security and potential harms of the
cyber world the benchmarks are primarily
a cloud Centric take on security and
include the fundamental Baseline
configuration an organization should
consider when embarking on an online
cloud-based service adhering to these
baselines will give an organization a
sufficiently strong security posture
mcsb includes a reference to to the
control domain the control domain is a
conceptual framework that encapsulates
and categorizes various security related
features settings and practices within
the Microsoft ecosystem providing a
structured approach for evaluating and
enhancing security configurations and
policies the control domains include
many important topics covered in this
course including network security data
protection identity management
privileged access incident response and
endpoint security to name just a few the
recommendations include reference to
Industry standard recommendations such
as the center for Internet Security or
CIS the National Institute of Standards
and technology or nist and the payment
card industry data security standards or
PCI DSS Frameworks these are all
internationally accepted and accredited
industry best practice standards in
incorporating them from diverse indust
Ries Microsoft creates an insightful
how-to guide each control domain
receives specific recommendations
appropriate to that area network
security has 10 recommendations
beginning with establishing Network
segmentation boundaries and ending with
Ensure domain name system security each
recommendation begins with a suggestion
then expands to discuss the reasoning
behind the requirements and include some
concrete implementation tips the
resource is further supported with links
to further information this ties into
what you have already learned about
Microsoft's Defender with this
understanding of the Microsoft security
Benchmark and its role in shaping
security policies Let's Zone in on how
these policies can be practically
applied as a reminder a policy is a set
of rules governing resource interactions
which reflects an organization security
posture grouping these policies creates
an initiative representing the method
ology through which a company implements
its security goals Defender encompasses
all these initiatives and conducts
frequent scans of company resources
providing an opportunity to apply these
initiatives to a manageable scope a
cyber security analyst can use
initiatives created for Microsoft
security Benchmark or apply company
specific ones designed with the
company's unique interests in mind the
mscb covers a broad range of areas many
of which have been covered in this
course including topics such as identity
and access management or I am data
protection Network Security application
security and monitoring and logging
let's move on to explore an example of
an initiative that highlights the
features that are included in a
recommendation the control ID allows you
to link it back to the mcsb and includes
a control description outlining the
purpose of the
recommendation the feature provides
insight into how you can meet the
requirement IR ments the feature
description gives a highlevel overview
of how the feature links with the
offered product in this case it
discusses the storing of keys in Azure
key Vault Microsoft has many features
though some have to be specifically
enabled configuration guidance directs
you to an external Source where various
configuration details are outlined in
addition there is a table that outlines
the policies available for that service
in conclusion the Microsoft security
benchmarks and security baselines serve
as invaluable resources in Cloud
security they Empower organizations by
providing a handbook of good practices
for implementing cloud-based
applications providing a solid
foundation for robust cyber security
practices this video showcased how these
Frameworks stand as functional
references to Aid an organization in
quickly selecting the best policies and
as a reference for micros roft Defender
when evaluating
policy regardless of size all
organizations are susceptible to
security threats and attacks the core of
every network security program is its
ability to monitor collect data assess
any threats and promptly deal with these
threats over the last few weeks you have
been continuing to increase your
understanding of cyber security however
when an organization receives data
through its Network how do you think a
cyber security expert handles this data
by manually analyzing every data packet
given the time this could take it may be
too late to stop an attack this is where
the Brilliance of sim and sore come into
play this video will take you through
the concepts of sim and sore and deepen
your understanding of how these two
resilient tools used by cyber
Specialists are adding a vital layer of
security to organization's networks
let's begin with security information
event management or SIM for short this
system system can pull in large amounts
of data points from a variety of sources
it then Aggregates and sorts this data
to identify any patterns a typical data
input could be logs threat intelligence
endpoint data Etc Sim then further links
these various data points with any
previous events it is important to
remember that there could be a massive
amount of data points fed into the
system and as previously stated manual
analysis takes time automating the
process through through Sim leads to a
more comprehensive analysis and detailed
investigation when an event is detected
Sim provides realtime monitoring and
upon detecting an event SIM can then
provide actionable intelligence for the
Specialists to use sim can even be
configured to offer intelligence feeds
so that it gives insights into current
threats by linking this information with
the logs gathered Sim is kept up to date
SIM can also be configured to include
actions from users on the system system
for a holistic view Sim is an efficient
method for the detection of events but
it's only half the battle once Sim
raises an alert and creates a case
report SAR comes into play security
orchestrated automated response or sore
for short is the next stage of the
process sore is an incident response
implementation system if the Sim system
finds an identifiable pattern the sore
system initiates the response this might
be shutting down a system or denying
access to a particular user Sour's
intelligence lies in the fact that all
of this takes place automatically but
automation can only happen when the
attack has occurred before or the
pattern clearly and correctly identifies
the problem and links it with a known
solution however not all threats can be
neatly linked or have occurred before
when a zero day event is detected SAR
presents the information to a cyber
analyst this analyst then creates
information on the case and Endeavors to
guide the system to the correct solution
a sore system is constantly evolving so
with each new incident detected the
information of the case is logged and
used in later event
detections together Sim and SAR
comprehensively guard your network
resources you can think of sim as the
Monitoring Center at the heart of the
building while sore is the rapid
response unit sent to deal with an
incident but how do these approaches
work in reality
let's imagine an organization who is
using Microsoft Sentinel to analyze data
in real time from both on premises and
Cloud settings Sentinel is a perfect
example of a Sim service during data
analysis Sentinel detects a spike in a
virtual machine and raises an alarm this
alarm is sent to sore for
Remediation in this instance the notice
could be sent to Microsoft flow or Azure
logic apps for an automated response
upon receiving receiving the alert the
sour system triggers A preconfigured
playbook execution causing the isolation
of the machine which blocks incoming and
outgoing traffic upon resolution of the
incident a report generates highlighting
the event action taken and suggesting
several lessons to be learned this video
developed your understanding of two
crucial cyber security Concepts SAR and
Sim you have now learned how Sim
monitors and alerts upon the occurrence
of an incident while SAR is the system
that takes action to remediate this
incident with virtual environments
continuing to develop new technologies
and methods of engaging with the world
are opening up a variety of new threat
vectors for hackers but these new
methods also present opportunities for
cyber Specialists to create newer and
safer environments for
organizations to ensure effective
management of an organization's network
security it's essential to have tools
and systems that integrate the two
critical elements of cyber security that
you explored earlier security
information event management or Sim and
security orchestrated automated response
or as it's also called SAR Microsoft
Sentinel is an efficient tool that
provides intelligent security analytics
and threat intelligence all in one place
it's a cloud native Sim Source solution
that delivers intelligent security
analytics and threat intelligence across
an organization and offers a single
solution for alert detect ction threat
visibility and threat response this
video will guide you through Microsoft
Sentinel exploring its functions and how
it delivers simur
Solutions let's begin by examining the
fundamental tasks that Sentinel carries
out by combining Sim and sore
capabilities Sentinel is a centralized
system that monitors various inputs such
as logs endpoint activities intelligence
reports it also identifies patterns
raises alerts on event detection and
offers potential solutions to mitigate
the thresh essentially Sentinel has four
main tasks that it performs first is
collection as a central source of
monitoring Sentinel needs to be
configured to be aware of all system
users devices applications and other
network resources with access to logs
and other system outputs that may be
generated next is detection Sentinel has
many detection capabilities these
comprise of threat intelligence standard
user Behavior anomaly detection and Uris
sixs Sentinel uses a combination of
approaches to detect and identify
patterns associated with known hacks
whilst also keeping an eye out for any
abnormal behavior that could indicate an
attack such as a Black Swan attack these
attacks are particularly difficult to
combat due to the lack of available
information on them Sentinel also
employs machine learning to detect
malicious activities using Microsoft's
labeled data this investigation consists
of grouping abnormal actions based on
their relevance and then marking them
accordingly before applying a variety of
severity levels it's a collaborative
effort between a cyber security analyst
and Sentinel generated intelligence
reports Sentinel will also enhance data
with additional enrichments derived from
collected data and intelligence reports
available to the system last up is
respond having conducted the
investigation which is usually automatic
or orchestrated with a human Sentinel
takes action this can be a host of
responses including raising awareness or
restricting access for infected users
and
resources as you've witnessed Microsoft
Sentinel can be an enormous asset to the
endtoend security of your
organization but there are also some key
features that you should be aware of
Microsoft Sentinel comes with a large
range of connectors that are configured
for easy integration with Microsoft
products such as Office 365 Azure ad Etc
there is also a large community of
support that has developed additional
connectors to many non-microsoft
products once you have connected your
applications with Sentinel you can begin
monitoring them with Azure monitor
workbooks this includes functionality
for data visualization and analytics
while generic templates for workbooks
are available you can also create custom
workbooks as required next is analytics
analyzing data is a collaborative task
with Sentinel once Sentinel analyzes the
data it then correlates any alerts into
incidents if an incident is considered a
Potential Threat it will require first
an investigation and then mitigation
incidents are learned events created
from the machine learning rules based on
Microsoft learning from experience there
is an additional feature in Sentinel
that even allows you to create your own
incidents this enables Sentinel to
adjust to your specific needs automation
of your responses is done in the
Security operation Center or sock it's
integrated with Azure logic apps which
enables automation of responses an
automated response is added to the
security Playbook which can be
configured to generate a given response
in the face of an incident operating in
this fashion can save considerable Time
by making mundane repetitive tasks the
responsibility of the system which can
free up the it support for other work
sentinel's powerful hunting ability can
be completed through search and the
tools that are based in the miter
framework which as you may recall is a
globally accessible framework which
contains a comprehensive knowledge base
that cataloges the tactics techniques
and procedures used by threat actors
during cyber attacks it helps cyber
Security Professionals understand and
respond to adversaries behaviors and
improve defense
strategies within the miter framework
you can find related attacks and
insights into how these attacks might
Manifest this initiative is Comm
Community Based and allows you to
bookmark share and contribute to the
understanding of existing attacks in
this video you explored the inner
workings of Microsoft Sentinel
discovering how it functions its
capabilities and how it can enhance an
organization's simor Solution by
providing a comprehensive cyber security
solution that detects and responds to
threats it minimizes disruption to your
organization as you have already
discovered Microsoft oft Sentinel is a
powerful tool that enhances your
organization's security by providing
real-time threat detection incident
investigation and automated response
capabilities by leveraging the
capabilities of azure it can offer a
comprehensive and customizable solution
for security monitoring this video
continues that journey by introducing
you to several Sentinel functionalities
including creating a workspace and
configuring data connectors it will also
explore some of its features including
threat management content management and
configurations but first have you ever
wondered how to get Sentinel on your
device the installation process begins
by navigating to Microsoft Sentinel
through your Azure portal and either
searching within the search bar or
selecting it from the available Services
when Sentinel opens simply select the
option to create Microsoft Sentinel then
select create a
workspace this work space stores data
points and logs during the analytics
process after creating the workspace the
next crucial step is to configure it
properly to ensure effective monitoring
of the required resources the workspace
you created is also a log analytics
store it provides data for sentinel's
insights including all security logs and
signals it
receives these logs and signals can come
from Azure resources iot devices or
other Cloud resources Sentinel accesses
resources through connectors that can be
configured with Microsoft and
non-microsoft products connector
settings are found under the
configuration menu in
Sentinel the main dashboard of Sentinel
hosts several notable features including
General threat management content
management and
configurations in the general section
you can access an overview of Sentinel
displaying General statistics and
providing access to collected logs it
also provides new news and guides on the
latest updates available moving to the
threat management section Sentinel
possesses crucial capabilities for
maintaining effective security these
include Incident Management for tracking
and resolving security incidents
analytics rules machine learning models
for automated threat detection playbooks
for orchestrating incident responses and
hunting functionality for proactive
threat hunting additionally it also
offers tools for monitoring the
reliability and performance of The
Sentinel workspace next is content
management a central hub for organizing
and managing security related content
here you can access the content Hub a
repository containing pre-built security
configurations like analytics rules and
playbooks it provides organized
repositories to streamline content
management within this section you can
also access the community for sharing
security content collaborating with
other Azure Sentinel users and enhancing
knowledge sharing another feature found
within the content section is a range of
pre-built security
content this includes predefined
analytics rules queries dashboards
playbooks integration connectors and
incident templates incident templates
are designed to help organizations
quickly set up and streamline their
security operations these resources save
time improve security reduce complexity
and align with best practices however
organizations should customize them to
fit their needs and
environment next is the configuration
tab which offers comprehensive features
for managing system settings and
customizing various aspects of a
workspace or application you can use the
workspace manager to control a workspace
and edit specific details configure data
connectors to ingest data from diverse
sources Define and customize analytics
rules and queries in the analytics
section set up monitoring for specific
items via watch lists automate processes
through the automation section and
adjust systemwide settings to align with
specific
requirements this tab serves as a
central hub for tailoring the system to
meet individual needs and
preferences in the configuration section
you can also find data connectors
selecting this option will direct you to
a centralized Hub that contains a wide
range of available connectors ready for
installation once you select a connector
you will be presented with detailed
information about it including price
quantity of analytical rules and notes
about releases fixes or known issues
this video brought you through the
functionality and features of Microsoft
Sentinel you now have a solid
understanding of its features including
threat management content management and
configurations You Now understand how to
configure and utilize Sentinel bringing
an added layer of protection to your
organization previously you discovered
the wonderful advantages of having a
centralized identity and management
system in place one cited benefit is
that access and protection extend to the
application the company is developing as
well as the suite of services
applications and devices used in this
video you'll unpack Microsoft 365
Defender Services to help protect your
organization this includes what is in
the Microsoft Defender Suite package and
as well as the various services that are
available to protect the different
aspects of your system Microsoft
Defender 365 provides various
sophisticated tools to counter cyber
attacks these tools extend to providing
detection prevention investigation and
response capabilities these defensive
capabilities can be leveraged for
network resources such as the
application communication endpoint and
the identities created this is necessary
because attackers can spread attacks to
all access points in the network this
ability to leverage lateral attacks
means that there is a need for a tool
that can connect an anomaly found with
an endpoint with another anomaly found
with an identity or another endpoint in
the system if a hacker breaches a system
several indicators are left to highlight
it the challenge is that the Cyber
analyst can get overwhelmed by the
influx of signals in an effort to
present a panoramic view of the system
Microsoft 365 defect vender correlates
different signals together to coherently
identify an alert a record and
breadcrumb Trail are collected for that
attack which enables tracking down the
attacks documenting the effects and
providing
remediation the in-house cyber analysts
then have the option to customize these
metrics and reports to suit each
instance for each specific company's
need now that you have some context as
to what Microsoft 365 Defender is let's
examine what the defender Suite is made
up
of The Suite consists of identities
endpoints applications and email
identities relate to the digital
representation of individuals or
entities configured to interact with the
system Defender adds to the identity
protection provided by Azure active
directory or specifically the Azure ad
identity Protection Service this is used
to analyze user Behavior as they
interact with the system for unusual
patterns or activities the focus here is
placed on compromised identities these
are genuine identities that are being
used maliciously by hackers endpoints
are computers or devices connected to a
system they may include devices such as
laptops storage or computers Defenders
act as a unified platform that manages
all of these elements it provides
comprehensive security and intelligence
that pinpoints crossover activity from
various
endpoints this can Aid in tracking the
progress of of a breach this service
provides preventative remediation and
automated response capabilities next are
applications that relate to services or
applications these include integrated
and configured software programs that
interact with your system like software
as a service or SAS
applications Defender gives you deep
insights into these applications by
monitoring which ones are being used to
perform which tasks specifically
Defender is concerned with the data that
these SAS apps engage with as you know
protecting customer data and Company
proprietary data is Paramount for the
long-term survival of an
organization finally the defender
protective umbrella encompasses email
along with other file sharing activities
within the
organization the focus on this facet of
protection rests with analyzing links
found within emails this protection
includes collaborative tools like those
used in a production pipeline such as as
Microsoft teams one drive SharePoint or
Outlook by now you know that there is a
huge surface area of attack for hackers
to access your system as your business
grows so does the scope of protection
required to maintain system
Integrity Defender offers a suite of
protection services covering all domains
and risk areas you'll explore these
areas in more detail a bit later
Microsoft 365 Defender Services include
the following branches
that specialize in different aspects of
your system Microsoft Defender for
endpoint Microsoft Defender for Office
365 Microsoft Defender for identity
Microsoft Defender for cloud apps
Microsoft Defender vulnerability
management Azure active directory
identity protection Microsoft data loss
prevention and app
governance note that Microsoft Defender
for endpoint Microsoft Defender for
office 3 65 Microsoft Defender for
identity and Microsoft Defender for
cloud apps are the services most focused
on at this stage of your Learning
Journey in this video you covered an
overview of Microsoft 365 Defender and
its key features and
functionalities you once again realized
the importance of a centralized identity
and management system and dived into the
various areas that Microsoft 365
Defender can be configured to
protect emphasis was placed on on
protecting network resources such as
applications communication endpoints and
identities against cyber
attacks Microsoft Defender for endpoint
is a powerful cyber security platform
designed to fortify Network endpoints it
gives you security and visibility across
your network and helps you manage and
secure your assets using integrated
workflows these Advanced security
measures allow you to rapidly stop cyber
threats scale your sec security and
eliminate blind spots in this video
you'll learn about four core components
and how this bolsters security from
real-time threat alerts to automated
investigation and expert cyber security
analysis you'll discover the robust
protections Microsoft Defender for
endpoints offers for an organization's
cyber security needs but what exactly is
it Microsoft Defender for endpoint is a
platform designed expressly to enable
organizations to strengthen their
Network end points it comprises four
components namely prevention detection
investigation and response endpoint
sensors are fed into the application
which collects signals from various
sources including operating systems
workstations servers and mobile devices
for each endpoint configured to the
system Microsoft Defender for endpoint
provides the following protections
threat and vulnerability management
attack surface reduction Next Generation
protection endpoint detection and
response automated investigation and
Remediation and Microsoft threat experts
let's expand upon these Protection
Services in more detail threat and
vulnerability management is a tool that
applies a priority scale to end points
first the risk level for a breach is
assessed a score is calculated and the
user is presented with a report that
includes suggestions on improving the
endo
security this feature makes sense when
considering that an organization may
have thousands of end points with
security levels constantly changing
based on new findings system patches and
software updates attack surface
reduction is a comprehensive approach
that includes many elements to mitigate
against an external attack some elements
of this feature include analyzing
configuration for Optimum settings
exploiting mitigating techniques such as
scanning for malware signal
and Consulting known malicious site
databases to prevent connecting with
these sites and network protection which
involves filtering and scanning packets
and analyzing IP addresses domains and
URLs attack surface reduction reduces
Cyber attack vulnerabilities by
minimizing potential Avenues of attack
this is achieved through measures like
web protection it enhances web security
by restricting access to specific
websites and deflecting fishing attempts
Next Generation protection refers to the
inclusion of state-of-the-art cyber
security measures such as machine
learning that uses anomaly detection
classification and pattern Discovery to
identify malicious
activities Big Data analysis which makes
use of the results from Big Data
statistical analysis from Microsoft data
points in the variety of cyber
experiences it has engaged with and
Cloud infrastructure consisting of
measures such as conditional access
policies role-based access and modern
authentication methods before allowing
access to the system with Next
Generation protection applied to your
end points this increases the awareness
of attack signatures already witnessed
in various Fields the next service is
endpoint detection and response it
provides real-time alerts on sensor data
for the immediate notification of an
issue this can include identifying when
an endpoint has stopped working or has
begun to exhibit actions out of of the
ordinary with regards to automated
investigation and Remediation upon the
detection of an alert the system is
first configured to consult The Playbook
which houses a set of preconfigured
scenarios built from previous incidents
by comparing the signature pattern the
system can automatically determine if
the issue has been encountered before
and take similar action in such an event
the appropriate people are informed
following the automatic instigation of
defensive means the last protective
service is Microsoft threat experts this
managed service provides organizations
with experienced cyber security analysts
to investigate
systems together with Advanced tools the
analysts can triage a specific incident
or investigate a system to ensure it is
not compromised they provide a security
operations center also called sock to
deploy their managing and investigative
tools all endpoints are evaluated using
the Microsoft secure score for
devices this evaluation amalgamates
state-of-the-art insights on best
practices and applies them to the
configuration and the running
capabilities of devices included in this
are recommendations on best practices to
improve the security
score Microsoft Defender for endpoints
integrates with other Defender Suites
such as Microsoft Defender for cloud and
InTune giving you comprehensive security
for
endpoints in this video you learned that
Microsoft Defender for endpoints is
built to fortify Network end points you
learned that there are four essential
components which are prevention
detection investigation and response
these components offer insights into how
it reinforces
security from realtime threat alerts to
automated investigation capabilities and
the expertise of Microsoft threat
experts the protective arsenal of
Microsoft Defender for endpoints equips
organizations to address their cyber
security imperatives
confidently by now you are well
acquainted with Microsoft 365 Defender
Services you also covered using Defender
for Office 365 endpoints and Cloud apps
in this video you'll continue along this
path by exploring Microsoft Defender for
identity specifically you'll unpack its
functionality and role within cyber
security furthermore you'll gain insight
into how Azure active directory retains
user authentication information and how
Defender for identity uses signals to
detect Insider risks and compromised
identities then you'll learn about its
capabilities in monitoring and alerting
across the Cyber kill chain finally
you'll get some clarity on how Defender
for identity extends its protection to
active directory Federation services and
identifies domain dominance for now
let's start at the top by First Learning
how Microsoft Defender uses signals for
detection Azure active directory or
Azure ad for short retains all user
authentication information which
includes user login credentials
authentication logs access tokens and
security related metadata Azure ad
securely stores and manages this data to
support various identity and access
management functionalities such as user
authentication authorization and
auditing of access events collect
itively these data points are called
signals signals are the means through
which Defender for identity establishes
legitimate users and user access
Behavior an attack originating from a
legitimate user identity may come from
Insider action called Insider risk
alternatively this may occur through
authentication from a legitimate
identity that's been
compromised through modeling standard
normal behavior patterns Defender for
identity raises an alert when a user's
actions are outside this established
Norm let's examine an example consider a
legitimate authenticated user who makes
excessive download requests from several
sensitive data sources alternatively a
user might use appropriate
authentication requests but exhibit
other unusual characteristics such as
altering the customary access time frame
or changing standard geolocation stamps
another reason may be that the user
makes a series of authentication
requests with various passwords
indicating a Brute Force attack Defender
investigates suspicious activity across
the Cyber kill chain a killchain is a
concept used in cyber security to
describe the various stages or steps
that an attacker typically goes through
to execute a successful Cyber attack so
in the event of a Fallout Defender
provides a breadcrumb information report
that outlines how an incident
compromised the system for fast
triage but how does Defender monitor for
potential cyber attacks and issue alerts
Defender for identity generates security
reports and profile analytics to reduce
the probability that a successful attack
can be leveraged these reports also
suggest best practices regarding
identity configuration and security
posture practices for example it
highlights devices attempting to log on
with clear text passwords and other
frowned upon practices Defender for
identity Prov provides comprehensive
cover for identities by extending its
protection to active directory
Federation services or adfs for short
this simply means that hybrid or on
premises active directories are also
protected Defender for identity is
designed to prevent Hackers from
infiltrating organizations by protecting
all stages of the killchain to carry out
such protection Microsoft Defender
performs certain actions during the
following stages reconnaissance is where
Defender for identity deflects any
attempts to gather information on a
system it does this by identifying
suspicious activities that suggest an
attacker is attempting to gain insights
into a system through signs like unusual
behaviors or access
patterns with compromised credentials
Defender for identity protects against
access being leveraged through
monitoring attempts to log on an
indication of compromised credentials
includes repeated failed log on attempts
failed authentic ations or a change in
user pattern such as altering user
groups a multiactor authentication or
MFA request is generated when
credentials have been
compromised lateral movements are about
gaining access through one entry point
and navigating to other parts of the
system Microsoft Defender for identity
detects lateral movements by monitoring
user and entity Behavior identifying
anomalies analyzing peer group Behavior
generating alerts for suspicious
activities correlating data from
multiple sources providing context
around activities and enabling security
teams to respond effectively to stop or
contain
threats lastly domain dominance refers
to the state where an attacker gains
full control and authority over a domain
within a network this is often achieved
through actions like remotely executing
code on the domain controller or using
other methods Defender for identity is
designed to identify and Alert security
teams to such malicious behavior to
mitigate potential
threats in this video you explored
Microsoft Defender for identities
functionality within cyber security it
emphasizes the role of azure active
directory in retaining user
authentication data which serves as
signals for detecting Insider risks and
compromised
identities you then learned about
Defender for identities capabilities and
monitoring and alerting across the Cyber
kill chain
including its ability to detect
suspicious activities and generate
security reports Additionally you now
understand Defender for identities
extension to adfs and its role in
identifying domain
dominance up until now you've been
learning about the components that make
up Microsoft Defender recall that the
Microsoft 365 Defender Suite consists of
identities endpoints applications and
email you then learned about the many
services offered which each Target and
protect a certain area of an
organization system in this video you'll
learn about the capabilities of
Microsoft 365 Defender portal by
exploring the Portal's interface you'll
discover that the defender portal
provides a unified view for triaging
incidents let's first establish what the
purpose of this portal is the Microsoft
365 Defender portal serves as a
centralized platform that combines
multiple Security Services to provide
comprehensive protection with prevention
capabilities detection investigation and
response across various aspects of an
organization's digital
environment this includes safeguarding
against threats in areas such as email
collaborative tools user identities
devices and Cloud applications Microsoft
offender has grown in response to
various threats that are leveraged
against different aspects of the Cyber
side of an
organization recall that Defender has
the following components of which the
first four are the primary Focus
Microsoft Defender for endpoint
Microsoft Defender for Office 365
Microsoft Defender for identity
Microsoft Defender for cloud apps
Microsoft Defender vulnerability
management Azure active directory
identity protection Microsoft data loss
prevention and app governance each
component of Defender protects a
different domain a cyber analyst who
triages an incident may have to focus on
these different domains to isolate the
the breadcrumbs left by an intruder by
combining these services within the
Microsoft 365 Defender portal
organizations can establish a unified
security framework that addresses a wide
range of cyber security
challenges this makes it easier to
protect sensitive data detect threats
investigate incidents and respond
effectively to security breaches the
Microsoft Defender 365 portal can be
found by navigating to the security app
in your admin Office 365 menu bar this
then redirects you to the defender 365
portal there's a drop-down menu that
offers a range of services to choose
from any incidents or alerts arising
from any of the defender components can
be accessed here next you can select
incidents which opens a new display that
includes a descriptive incident name and
unique ID number for later reference
each of these incidents can be further
expanded to provide details on what
actions triggered the incident you are
able to also Al review the level of
severity ranging from low to high
depending on the perceived Associated
danger the detection Source refers to
the service that identified the incident
furthermore you can access information
on which identity the incident is
targeted at as well as an incident
timestamp the defender portal also
enables a user to triage the incident by
selecting the incident it is possible to
assign a user to investigate it there
are also classification options to group
incidents the alert section has similar
functionality including an informative
name ratings and extra information for
each alert when selected to further
investigate alerts drill into the user
or device involved in it then you are
able to perform actions to isolate or
restrict the actions available to an
entity you can also flag an identity to
be compromised in this section included
in the defender portal is a section on
threat analytics here threat analytics
provides Intelligence on emerging cyber
security threats it delivers insights
into active threat actors new attack
techniques critical vulnerabilities
common attack surfaces and prevalent
malware this information equips security
teams with the knowledge needed to
effectively respond to evolving threats
this threat intelligence is sourced from
expert Microsoft security researchers to
ensure that security teams have access
to up-to-date and reliable information
it's important to be able to
differentiate that alerts are individual
notifications about potential security
issues whereas incidents are collections
of related alerts that indicate a more
significant security event or thresh
incidents help security teams prioritize
and manage their response to multiple
alerts allowing them to focus on
addressing larger security
issues in this video you realized that
the Microsoft 365 Defender portal
emerges as a formidable solution
seamlessly consolidating multiple
Security Services to fortify an
organization's digital landscape against
a spectrum of threats with its
components it adapts to the evolving
cyber threat landscape safeguarding
distinct domains within an organization
you learned that this unified security
framework simplifies the protection of
sensitive data streamlines threat
detection empowers efficient incident
investigation and enables Swift
responses to security breaches by
providing a centralized view for
triaging incidents it equips security
teams with the tools needed to navigate
the complex cyber security landscape
effectively ensuring the resilience and
security of the digital
environment great work on reaching the
end of Microsoft Security Solutions by
getting to this point you should now
have a better grasp of the basic
security capabilities that Microsoft
Azure offers you you also became aware
of Microsoft Sentinel and the threat
protection that Microsoft 365 Defender
provides let's review the key Concepts
that you covered you first learned about
Azure dos protection where Microsoft
Azure provides various dos solutions to
protect your network infrastructure you
now know that you can use Azure to
protect your network by analyzing
incoming traffic and discarding anything
that appears to be part of a Dos attack
you also learned about the three types
of Dos attacks which are DOs
infrastructure protection which is the
free default solution dods Network
protection is the advanced solution and
dods IP protection which is a paper
protected IP model you considered the
various Solutions available in Azure
active directory and the licensing and
payment models next you explored dos in
depth by diving deeper into its rapid
response support the degree of
protection and best practices next you
focused on Azure firewall which is a
cloud-based service that is centrally
managed and designed to protect your
Azure virtual Network specifically you
zoned in on the best practices for
configuration key enhancement features
such as scalability and availability to
name a few and how firewalls can
contribute to a strong security posture
that supports segmentation you then
learned about the web application
firewall or wff that examines and
filters incoming web traffic and
identifies and blocks potential security
threats you unpack dwaf analysis and
implementation its deployment and the
benefits that arise from proper
configuration next you learned about
Network segmentation where similar
workloads or network resources are
gathered to reside on their own portion
of the network the advantages include
the Simplicity of keeping track of your
various assets unrelated resources are
isolated from one another therefore
limiting access and that it's easier to
apply blanket governance policies to
similar assets you discovered virtual
Network or v-net peering that
establishes a direct and private
connection between two v-ets in the same
or different regions then VPN Gateway
connection differs in that it
establishes a secure and encrypted
connection between an on-premises
Network or an individual device and an
Azure vnet you then became familiar with
Azure Bastion and just in time
access Azure Bastion is a fully managed
platform as a service or P that you can
provision to communicate safely with
your virtual machines just in time
access enables you to exert greater
control over who can access a resource
and how they can access it you also
learned about granting external access
using remote desktop protocol or RDP and
secure shell or SSH but that they have
weaknesses like maliciously being used
as a point of entry therefore Azure
Bastion is preferred because you can
create an initial safe entry point to
connect with your existing
resources later you shifted your
attention to Azure Security Management
you focused on cloud security posture
management or cspm for short which is
the suite of tools available to you to
strengthen the management of security
you examined the cspm key Concepts which
include zero trust realtime risk scoring
threat and vulnerability management or
TVM and threat modeling systems and
architectures next you unpacked
Microsoft Defender and its Advanced
detection capabilities continuous
monitoring compliance suggestions and
reviews Defender comprehensive defense
strategy focuses on three key areas
continuous assessment strengthening
security and defensive capabilities you
learned that Defender for cloud in depth
provides you with various resource
specific options from recommendations
and security alerts to just in time
access controls and detailed information
Defender equips you with tools for
enhancing the security and performance
of your
resources security baselines for Azure
provided insights into Microsoft
security benchmarks and security
baselines which serve as invaluable
resources in Cloud security they provide
good practices and are referenced as a
handbook when an organization seeks the
best policies you next moved on to
learning about security capabilities of
Microsoft Sentinel which introduced you
to the concept of security information
event management or Sim and security
orchestrated automated response or sore
for short you have now learned that Sim
monitors and alerts upon the occurrence
of an incident while SAR is the system
that takes action to remediate this
incident together Sim and Sor
comprehensively guard your network
resources you then learned about
Microsoft Sentinel as an efficient tool
that provides intelligent security
analytics and threat intelligence all in
one place
it offers alert detection threat
visibility and threat response Sentinel
monitors various inputs such as logs
endpoint activities intelligence reports
it also identifies patterns raises
alerts on event detection and offers
potential solutions to mitigate the
threat Sentinel and integrated threat
management covered the configuration for
importing intelligence threat Imaging
and detection and threat
visualization you can use geolocation to
analyze potential threats Sentinel
in-depth showed you how to set it up on
a device and introduce the
functionality you next moved on to
threat protection with Microsoft 365
Defender you learned about Microsoft 365
Defender as centralized identity and
management system which provides tools
to counter cyber attacks these tools
offer detection prevention investigation
and response capabilities the defender
Suite is made up of identities end
points applications and email and offers
Protection Services covering all domains
and risk areas such as Microsoft
Defender for endpoint Microsoft Defender
for Office 365 Microsoft Defender for
identity Microsoft Defender for cloud
apps Microsoft Defender vulnerability
management Azure active directory
identity protection Microsoft data loss
prevention and app
governance next you examined Microsoft
Defender for Office 365 which is
targeted specifically for collaboration
tools such as Microsoft teams SharePoint
or one
drive this service includes threat
protection policies reports alerts and
response automation you discovered that
Microsoft Defender for endpoint is a
powerful cyber security platform
designed to fortify Network endpoints it
consists of four components namely
prevention detection investigation and
response it gives you security and
visibility across your network and helps
you manage and secure your assets using
integrated
workflows you then moved on to Defender
for identity that uses signals to
establish legitimate users and user
access Behavior this is achieved by
Azure active directory retaining user
authentication information Defender for
identity has capabilities in monitoring
and alerting across the Cyber kill chain
detecting suspicious activities and
generating security
reports conclude it with the defender
portal that is a centralized platform
that combines multiple Security Services
through a unified view for triaging
incidents by completing Microsoft
Security Solutions you are familiar with
azure's basic security capabilities
Microsoft Sentinel and the threat
protection that Microsoft 365 Defender
provides well
done Microsoft's commitment to trust
privacy and compliance stands as a
foundational pillar of its services
from Azure to a myriad of cloud
offerings Microsoft Endeavors to not
only Foster trust between clients and
service providers but also simplify the
complex landscape of compliance
requirements that differ across
Industries and Geographic locations
where your data May reside in this video
you'll become familiar with the steps
taken by Microsoft to demonstrate this
commitment you'll focus on the service
trust portal a collection of resources
that help organizations operate in a
secure transparent and compliant manner
Microsoft cloud services are built with
a view to establish trust between the
client and service provider as part of
the functionality available from Azure
and other cloud services they provide
information on compliance for different
Industries and geographical locations
where your data may eventually be stored
Microsoft employs a privacy by default
policy this means that privacy concerns
are built into services from the onset
rather than added as an afterthought
an example of this is Microsoft's priva
a service for customers to label catalog
and examine the various types of
personal data that they are managing
another example is Microsoft service
trust portal or STP let's find out how
the STP can Aid a business with
information relating to security privacy
and compliance aspects of Microsoft
cloud services as a central repository
for compliance and security documents it
covers the following topics compliance
documentation audit reports data
protection resources trust documents
service compliance overview and
compliance manager let's go over each of
these one by one compliance
documentation concerns detailed
information on Microsoft's compliance
with various industry standards and
regulations such as the general data
protection regulation or gdpr the health
insurance portability and accountability
act or Hippa standards of the
International Organization for
standardizing I ation or ISO and more
audit reports are about access to audit
reports and certifications related to
Microsoft cloud services these reports
often include third-party assessments of
security and compliance controls data
protection resources refers to
information and resources related to
data protection and privacy helping
organizations understand how their data
is handled and protected by Microsoft
Services trust documents are docu ments
and white papers that provide in-depth
insights into the security and privacy
architecture of Microsoft cloud
services service compliance overview is
an overview of the compliance
commitments and certifications specific
to each Microsoft cloud service and
compliance manager is a tool that helps
organizations assess and manage their
compliance with various regulations and
standards When using Microsoft Services
international law governing the storing
and Gathering of personal data is
continually changing by the nature of
cloud services this data might be stored
in a myriad of places around the globe
in these different locations there are
alternative and differing laws that need
to be understood to prevent
inadvertently violating them this inart
explains the need for the STP as
customers need to know where and how
their data is being
stored on the landing page of the
service trust portal you'll find
information organized into the following
categories the certifications
regulations and standards category
provides information and documentation
regarding the various certifications
industry regulations and standards that
Microsoft cloud services comply with it
includes details on how Microsoft aligns
its services with security and
compliance requirements such as gdpr
Hippa ISO standards and more within the
reports white papers and artifact
section you can access a we of reports
white papers and Technical artifacts
these documents offer deep insights into
the security architecture data
protection practices and compliance
controls implemented by Microsoft they
serve as valuable resources for
organizations seeking to understand the
technical aspects of Microsoft's cloud
services in industry and Regional
resources you'll find resources tailor
to specific Industries and regions these
resources are designed to address
industry specific compliance and
security concerns for example Healthcare
organizations may find resources related
to healthcare compliance while
businesses in specific regions May
access materials addressing local data
protection laws and the resources for
your organization category provides
tools and materials for assisting your
organization in assessing planning and
managing security privacy and compliance
aspects When using Microsoft cloud
services it may include include
templates best practices and guidelines
to help you align your organization's
practices with Microsoft security and
compliance
recommendations by selecting one of the
icons on the page you will be redirected
to a collection of related documents
users can select various related
documents and store them to a private
Library called my library for later
reference these categories collectively
offer a structured and comprehensive
approach to understanding and utilizing
ing Microsoft's commitment to security
compliance and trustworthiness in its
Cloud offerings empowering organizations
to make informed decisions and maintain
compliance with regulatory
requirements in this video you became
aware of how Microsoft shows commitment
to the trust privacy and compliance at
the core of its cloud services from
Azure to various Cloud offerings
Microsoft aims to Foster trust between
clients and service providers while
simplifying compliance complexities
across Industries and Geographic
locations where data is stored their
privacy by default policy ensures that
privacy is integrated into services from
the outset exemplified by tools like
Microsoft's preva and the
STP by offering insights into compliance
documentation audit reports data
protection resources trust documents
service compliance overview and
compliance manager the service trust
portal serves as a centralized
repository giving users a One-Stop
location for addressing most of their
compliance
questions you've discovered how
Microsoft incorporates fundamental
privacy principles into their
Technologies which manifests as
different policies practices and
Technologies used in gathering and
storing data this approach not only
safeguards data but also builds trust
and privacy by extension an organization
that utilizes these methods and best
practices also provides these assurances
to their customers Microsoft's approach
to data privacy revolves around a
comprehensive understanding of the data
life cycle in this video you will
explore how Microsoft puts these
policies and Technologies into practice
to ensure customer privacy and trust
you'll dig into several areas which are
data collection and classification data
encryption Access Control Data retention
policies and data transparency and
consent let's start with data collection
and
classification Microsoft Begins by
categorizing data based on sensitivity
it employs technologies that
automatically classify data as it's
generated or received this ensures that
sensitive information receives the
highest level of protection to utilize
this approach navigate to the Microsoft
365 Defender portal at security.
microsoft.com under Cloud apps one can
configure their policy settings to
create a policy for detecting and
labeling sensitive data organizations
can leverage Advanced Data protection
tools and services the first step
typically involves defining the criteria
for sensitive information such as credit
card numbers Social Security numbers or
confidential
documents once these criteria are
established the policy is configured to
scan files emails or other data
repositories for matches to these
predefined patterns or
categories when sensitive data is
detected
the policy triggers an action such as
applying a sensitivity label to the file
or document these labels can indicate
the level of sensitivity access
restrictions and encryption requirements
ensuring that sensitive data is
appropriately marked and handled
promoting data security and compliance
with privacy
regulations this process helps
organizations maintain control over
their data and protected from
unauthorized access or disclosure once
data is identified as sensitive it can
be encrypted Microsoft utilizes
state-of-the-art encryption techniques
to protect data both during Transit and
while at rest this ensures that even if
unauthorized access occurs the data
remains unreadable the Technologies used
include Advanced encryption standards or
AES a robust symmetric key encryption
algorithm for securing data and
transport layer security or TLS a
cryptographic protocol ensuring secure
data transmission and storage encryption
is a tried and tested solution for both
sending data securely and protecting
data at rest this extra layer of
protection adds to privacy and increases
trust in the
system Microsoft also implements strict
access controls so that only authorized
Personnel have access to specific data
based on their roles role-based access
control or arbac ensures that data is
accessible only to those who need it by
creating roles with specific permissions
and only allowing access to people
assigned those roles in addition
multiactor authentication or MFA
requires users to provide two or more
forms of authentication to verify their
identity when coupled with conditional
access policies they potentially create
trust that data is stored securely and
remains safe Microsoft promotes trust
and privacy by adhering to a data
handling standard policy within
Microsoft
365 this policy outlines clear data
retention and deletion guidelines for
different scenarios including active
deletion by users or administrators and
passive deletion due to subscription
termination data categories and
classifications such as customer content
enduser identifiable information and
personal data are subject to specific
retention periods Microsoft also ensures
that after the expiration or termination
of a subscription customer data is
securely retained for a limited period
to enable data extraction and then
permanently deleted to render it
commercially
unrecoverable this commitment to
transparent data management practices
Fosters trust by safeguarding customer
data throughout its life cycle
Microsoft's approach to data
transparency and consent is centered on
categorizing data as required or
optional this enhances Clarity and gives
users more control over their
data Microsoft is also committed to
improving product documentation making
it easier for users to understand why
certain data is collected supported by
technology like privacy dashboards and
consent management tools these efforts
aim to empower users by providing clear
information and control over their data
privacy additionally biannual reports on
data collection changes will further
enhance transparency ensuring users can
make informed decisions about their data
a user who is aware of where and how
their data is to be used as well as when
it is being collected will be far more
likely to trust a system an example of a
technology that emphasizes these
practices is Microsoft priva this is a
comprehensive solution for meeting
regulatory requirements and building
customer trust through a privacy by
Design approach it offers two key
Solutions priva privacy risk management
provides visibility into an
organization's data and policy templates
for reducing risks while preva subject
rights requests offers Automation and
workflow tools for fulfilling data
requests in this video you found that
Microsoft's commitment to privacy is
demonstrated through its well-defined
policies cuttingedge Technologies and
best practices that follow the data life
cycle this comprehensive approach
ensures that data is collected stored
and used responsibly building trust and
privacy by understanding how these
policies and Technologies work together
customers are reassured that their data
is kept private which builds
trust do you ever feel overwhelmed by
the large amounts of data you receive
from various sources such as emails text
messages and social media platforms
managing all of this information can be
a daunting task now imagine being a
large organization that receives vast
amounts of data daily how can they
manage it all and ensure they meet
compliance
regulations this is where Microsoft's
purview comes in
it's a data governance and cataloging
platform developed by Microsoft that
serves as a data management tool for
organizations in this video you'll be
taken through the purview portal to
explore how it functions and its various
capabilities let's start with the basics
Microsoft purview is an effective method
for managing and governing an
organization's data assets this
intelligent platform offers a wide range
of features and functionalities designed
to enhance data Discovery catalog data
enhance security and improve compliance
perview provides a central platform for
managing this data by aggregating data
from various sources within the
organization creating a unified catalog
and interface perview lets you quickly
search explore and access the needed
data the Microsoft purview portal is a
web-based user interface that allows you
to interact with and manage data assets
within the pview
ecosystem once you access the portal you
will see several cards presented to you
each card gives information on a
different compliance aspect and how your
organization performs you can also
locate the current compliance score the
compliance manager calculates the
compliance score and it's possible to
navigate to the suggestion by clicking
on the compliance manager card
additionally helpful links on Insider
risk management provide information on
techniques for detecting and preventing
Insider risk the Adaptive policy
contains a information about how to
avoid data loss and communication risk
organizations can use this service to
monitor Communications and ensure
compliance with company standards on the
left is a navigation panel from which
you can jump to other services to create
alerts reports and set policies you can
also add or remove Services you may or
may not frequently use data connectors
make purview a cross-platform service
allowing your organization to extend the
compliance functionality to
non-microsoft
Services you may recall that a data
connector is a component that will
enable two services to connect and
exchange data data connectors serve as
the Lynch pin for establishing
connections and facilitating seamless
data exchange between a data management
or compliance service like Microsoft
purview and an array of external data
sources although Microsoft often
develops these connectors for its Suite
of services they are inherently
versatile and designed to support an
extensive spectrum of data sources
transcending the confines of Microsoft
Technologies this cross-platform
adaptability empowers organizations to
integrate data from non-microsoft
Services encompassing databases cloud
storage applications and other sources
perview offers various essential
functionalities that can enhance the
quality of the services provided by your
organization for example
the extending compliance functionality
within data Management Services
encompasses an array of features related
to data governance data security data
classification and adherence to rigorous
regulatory standards leveraging data
connectors to forge connections with
non-microsoft Services enables
organizations to extend their compliance
Endeavors to data sources that may not
inherently align with Microsoft's
technological
landscape as a result compliance policy
policies data protection measures and
meticulous data governance practices can
be uniformly applied across a broader
spectrum of data assets irrespective of
their origin or underlying
infrastructure the second panel in
purview introduces several crucial
functionalities including audit which
enables comprehensive tracking of data
related activities ensuring compliance
security and accountability or content
search which streamlines data retrieval
by facilitating targeted searches you
also have communication compliance which
monitors and enforces organizational
communication standards promoting policy
adherence and Regulatory Compliance and
ecovery which empowers organizations to
conduct electronic Discovery processes
while identifying preserving and
retrieving relevant electronic
information for legal purposes these
functionalities collectively expand
purviews effective data management
security compliance and legal read
capabilities you will explore additional
functionalities of purview such as
Insider risk management information
protection and the data life cycle in
Greater detail later in this video you
explored Microsoft perview and now
understand the benefits it can bring to
an organization from managing data to
adding a layer of security Microsoft
perview is a vital platform for modern
data management and governance it equips
organizations with the tools to affect
effectively manage data assets and
address security threats Microsoft pview
plays a central role in navigating the
complexities of data in today's
landscape you previously learned that
Microsoft perview is a data governance
and cataloging platform developed by
Microsoft that serves as a data
management tool for
organizations one of the most critical
sections of perview relates to the
compliance manager the compliance
manager helps organizations maintain
regulatory standards and ensures all
specific legal requirements are followed
in this video you will continue your
exploration of Microsoft purview by
focusing solely on the compliance
manager exploring its features and how
it can benefit your
organization let's start with where you
can find the compliance manager simply
navigate to the left hand side of
Microsoft purview and select compliance
manager as mentioned the compliance
manager maintains regulatory standards
it does this by autom aut atically
integrating with regulatory Frameworks
that overlap with the company
services then the compliance manager
creates a task list populated with
informative metadata such as severity
and reasons they are required the
compliance manager also provides
potential Solutions and a process for
assigning tasks to staff members if an
organization wants to comply with data
regulations they must process data in a
way that aligns with geographical or
industry
regulations this includes preventing
data breaches unauthorized Access Data
loss and ensuring secure data storage
for instance if an organization Works
within the financial industry they must
ensure that all customer transactions
and Communications are encrypted whether
in transit or not for an organization
working in medicine the health insurance
portability and accountability act or
Hippa mandates that an audit Trail must
exist for all customer data as you can
imagine all of this fun functionality is
a tremendous asset to an organization as
the compliance manager will take
inventory of the risk presented to the
data stay relevant and inform the
organization of any changes that occur
in the industry that may require a
subsequent adjustment by the company the
compliance manager achieves all of this
by providing several
capabilities regulatory assessment
involves determining the industry an
organization as a part of Consulting an
industry specific knowledge base and
overlapping the organization ation
measures with the requirements the
compliance manager further ranks
compliance issues in order of importance
for enabling efficient admin risk
assessment what's more you can integrate
with industry specific compliance
Frameworks providing a structured
approach to risk assessment that aligns
with regulatory requirements these
step-by-step guides are also accompanied
by compliance scores measuring an
organization's progress in maintaining
industry standards and lastly
terminology the compliance manager uses
specific terms for identifying issues
for example control is a requirement of
a regulation standard or policy action
is an activity that helps Implement a
rule and assessments help your
organization evaluate compliance from a
specific regulation standard or
procedure when selected the compliance
manager presents you with an overview
screen from here you can view the
compliance of your organization or areas
which require additional work it will
will also show how much work has been
done automatically the Improvement
action tab or to-do tasks are further
broken down by a descriptive name that
suggests the nature of the task impact
which reflects an assessment of the
consequence of taking the step it's
measured in Impact points contributing
to a better compliance score test status
tracks the progress of the assessment
indicating whether it has been
appropriately tested yet group
categorizes the compliance item by
policies controls or risks an admin can
label different action items based on
how they relate to Industry requirements
the compliance manager uses these to
group related activities to quickly
assign them to the appropriate operative
to resolve action type categorizes the
action required to address a compliance
issue or risk it distinguishes between
corrective preventive or other measures
needed to ensure compliance and data
protection on the right side of the task
list there is a list of solutions that
your organization can potentially
implement this list includes a brief
description of the issue and details of
the potential implementation of the
solution additionally it provides a link
to more information on the subject
within this link the compliance manager
can also assign the task to a team
member creating accountability and
streamlining an administrator functions
by providing a clear structure on who is
achieving which end and giving the most
suitable team member the task this video
brought you through the capabilities and
functionalities of the compliance
manager you explored the interface and
focused on how an organization can
improve its Regulatory Compliance you
now have a solid understanding of how
this valuable tool can be a tremendous
benefit for your
organization recently compliance has
grown to be an essential component of an
organization's daily operations but what
happens when a large organization has
operations across multiple countries
with compliance requirements varying
significantly by either industry or
region businesses now have to comply
with and understand a wide range of laws
and
regulations therefore it should come as
no surprise that organizations are
finding it challenging to remain up
to-date with these compliance
requirements since they can change over
time due to evolving industry changes or
shifts in
regulation in reality organizations now
face Financial fines legal repercussions
and reputational harm if they fail to
meet their compliance
obligations in this video you will
explore these challenges organizations
face and how Microsoft's purview is
rising to meet them you may recall that
Microsoft purview is a compliance
management tool that assists
organizations in monitoring tracking and
ensuring compliance with various
regulations and standards compliance
means being able to adhere to these
regulations and standards furthermore
depending on the geographic location and
Industry these regulations can vary
dramatically from one organization to
another there are three main areas of
compliance that organizations typically
need to address first privacy ensuring
the protection of customer and employee
data and complying with data privacy
regulations next risk managing and
mitigating various risks such as
Financial operational and reputational
risks while following relevant
risk-rated regulations and last legal
complying with various legal obligations
including contract law intellectual
property law and Industry specific
regulations with the rise of conducting
Business Online businesses are
increasingly involved in the transfer
storage and processing of individuals
data therefore data management has
become critical to ensuring that an
organization maintains their compliance
but many organizations are now working
in different countries and industries
and each of these countries could have
have their own requirements and
compliance standards for example General
data protection regulation or gdpr
primarily focuses on data protection and
privacy in the European Union ensuring
that individuals have control over their
data while health insurance portability
and accountability act or Hippa is
specific to the healthc care industry in
the United States and safeguards
sensitive patient information and
payment card industry data security
standard or PCI DSS applies to
organizations handling credit card data
globally ensuring secure payment card
transactions these diverse regulations
address unique challenges and
Necessities within their respective
domains therefore organizations
operating across different Industries
and regions must navigate a complex
landscape of compliance requirements to
protect data and ensure adherence to the
law thankfully Microsoft purview has
addressed these challenges by developing
an automated solution solution this
automated approach can significantly
reduce the effort required by manual
methods using the following
capabilities first is data
classification and Discovery Microsoft
purview provides robust data
classification and Discovery
capabilities it can automatically scan
and classify data based on sensitivity
and content aiding in identifying and
tagging sensitive information this is
crucial for compliance with various
regulations such as gdpr CCPA and Hippa
as it assists in recognizing personal
data Health Care information Financial
records and other regulated data types
next perview enables organizations to
Define and enforce data governance
policies tailor to specific regulatory
requirements for gdpr this means
implementing procedures for data
retention consent management and data
subject rights similarly Hippa involves
policies for safeguarding prot protected
health
information purviews policy management
features can help automate compliance
with these diverse regulations ensuring
that data is handled according to their
stipulations various industry
regulations including those in finance
and Healthcare often require robust
audit trails and Reporting capabilities
perview offers audit and Reporting tools
to track data access usage and
modifications organizations can use
these features to demonstrate compli
with industry specific regulations and
provide Auditors with the necessary
evidence data security is Paramount
across Industries perview can help
organizations ensure that encryption
measures are correctly implemented and
managed aligning with data security
requirements from gdpr hipa PCI DSS for
payment card data and other relevant
regulations it assists in Key Management
and encryption policy enforcement to
protect sensitive data GDP R also
mandates that individuals have the right
to data portability and the right to be
forgotten perview can help organizations
create processes and workflows to
respond to these requests efficiently in
line with gdpr and similar
regulations it can track data movement
and assist in securely deleting data
when
required next Microsoft purview offers
features that continuously assess an
organization's adherence to various
policies and
regulations it provides alerts and
reports on compliance violations helping
organizations proactively address issues
and maintain compliance across different
regulatory
Frameworks purview is also highly
customizable allowing organizations to
tailor their compliance measures to the
specific requirements of gdpr HIPPA PCI
DSS and other industry specific
regulations custom sensitivity labels
policy configurations and compliance
workflows can be established lished to
meet the unique demands of different
compliance
Frameworks lastly purview can also serve
as a platform for training and
documentation related to compliance with
multiple
regulations organizations can use it to
educate their employees and partners on
compliance standards and best practices
fostering a culture of compliance across
various regulatory
landscapes in this video you continued
your journey through Microsoft purview
learning about the challenges
organization face regarding compliance
you now have a solid understanding of
how Microsoft purviews automated
compliance service has risen to this
challenge by helping organizations
adhere to the many applicable
regulations and
standards compliance has now become a
crucial aspect of an organization's
operations and staying informed about
and adapting to specific requirements
has become essential Solutions like
pview are playing a significant role in
helping businesses address these
challenges and maintain compliance with
their relevant laws and
expectations data management
capabilities are enhanced when an
organization can use trained classifiers
to group related data into categories
for an administrator to process this
video focuses on purview and explores
how it provides this capability it also
discusses the licensing requirements and
roles needed to achieve this an
organization's data management
responsibilities Encompass a wide range
of data from user authentication data to
proprietary company information whether
data is collected for in-house purposes
or as a third-party service provider it
is essential to meet specific data
management
requirements with Microsoft Azure ad
this crucial task is entrusted to
compliance and data administrators their
primary objective is to assess and
categorize data effectively ensuring its
proper organization control protection
and preservation a deep understanding of
the dat data within an organization is a
Cornerstone of maintaining compliance
and Microsoft purview offers robust data
classification capabilities to address
this need data classification at its
core is the process of automatically
assigning labels or descriptive
categories to various data elements
these labels group related data and help
organizations make sense of their data
landscape within data classification
three distinct types of labels come into
play sensitivity labels are a critical
aspect of data
classification they categorize data
based on its sensitivity level sensitive
data includes confidential private or
valuable information and requires
protection against unauthorized access
disclosure or misuse protection labels
are applied to data or documents to
specify and enforce security and access
control policies examples of protection
labels include designations like
confidential for internal use only or
public these protection labels play a
crucial role in implementing encryption
access control and data loss prevention
measures to ensure data protection based
on its
classification retention labels on the
other hand are employed in data
management and information governance to
specify the duration and conditions for
retaining data or documents these labels
are typically associated with records
management and compliance policies
retention labels Define how long data
should be retained whether it requires
review before deletion and whether it
should be treated as a record
classifying data into these labels
provides a structured framework for
organizations to manage their data
effectively this process not only
enhances data organization but also
plays a pivotal role in ensuring data
security compliance and efficient data
governance Microsoft purviews data
classification capabilities empow
organizations to make informed decisions
about their data enabling them to meet
regulatory requirements and internal
policies while safeguarding sensitive
information the classification aspect of
the service means that a lot of the work
can be automated reading through large
amounts of data to determine how it is
best managed would significantly Drain
Company resources the data
classification is found in the perview
compliance portal data classification
will automatically scan your data and
label it according to its nature the
doing the outcome of this process
enables the administrator to determine
the data landscape before determining
What policies should be enacted this
process is deemed zero change management
by first presenting a unified view of
what data is considered in which
category the administrator can assess
what is required by the organization it
is referred to as zero change because no
permanent changes are yet enacted the
classifiers can be adjusted or the label
types can be changed from the assessment
of what the retention policy is to
access data classification and Microsoft
purview you need one of the following
licenses Microsoft 365 E3 Office 365 E3
Enterprise mobility and security E3
these licenses Grant eligibility for the
purview solutions trial allowing you to
explore the data classification features
the trial typically includes a set of
Microsoft 365 E5 compliance licenses
which are active for9 days it's
important to note that you will need to
have the appropriate admin roles such as
billing administrator compliance
administrator Global administrator or
compliance data
administrator in this video you explored
the crucial role of Microsoft purview in
data classification and its significance
in organization control security and
preservation the classification process
involves sensitivity protection and
retention labels each serving distinct
purposes and enhancing data organization
security compliance and governance you
should now have a clearer understanding
of the importance of data categorization
and how purview streamlines this process
effectively content Explorer and
activity Explorer are pivotal components
within Microsoft purview for Effective
data management and compliance content
Explorer serves as a data curation tool
ensuring compliance and optimal data
utilization
activity Explorer on the other hand
extends functionality by highlighting
actions performed on labeled data it
gathers information from various
activities including sensitivity and
retention labeling activities from
Microsoft Office
applications this video delves deeper
into the functionalities and
significance of these components
effective data curation is crucial for
organizations to meet compliance
requirements and extract the maximum
value from their
information content Explorer steps in to
streamline this intricate process by
providing a centralized platform for
assessing categorizing and managing data
accessing content Explorer requires
specific roles including Global
administrator compliance administrator
Security administrator compliance data
administrator only a global admin can
manage or assign permissions to a user
in the compliance portal to view
assigned permissions navigate to roles
and Scopes then to permission in the
purview options menu here one finds a
list of available roles and Scopes these
pertain to various permissions and
actions that a user can be allocated to
within the compliance portal in the
example the compliance administrator has
two users assigned to this role the
associated capabilities are described on
the right further exploration into the
compliance administrator role provides
insights into its assigned users and
capabilities such as configuring and
managing reports in Azure ad and Office
365 roles are assigned and managed from
the Azure ad portal having gained access
through the appropriate role assignment
administrators gain a panoramic view of
summarized content in the overview pane
featuring the number of classified items
details relating to where these items
can be found and information about user
interactions this information is
reserved for Content Explorer list
viewers and content viewers ensuring
tightly controlled access due to to its
far-reaching
capabilities this enables administrators
to securely gain insight into the
documents scanned from different
locations including SharePoint exchange
and one drive as the curator of labeled
data activity Explorer extends the
functionality by highlighting what
activities have been done on this data
collecting the information from
Microsoft 365 logs activity Explorer
provides a historical view of activities
the image portrays a filtered View
spotlighting actions taken on data
between specific dates it demonstrates
how many times the information has been
transferred to a USB uploaded to a
thirdparty cloud account and otherwise
shared externally with over 30 filters
including date range activity type
location user sensitivity label
retention label file path and DLP policy
activity Explorer provides a granular
understanding of data activities
depending on the service specialized
license is necessary for example to
examine Microsoft 365 data you require
an E5 license to access activity
Explorer Microsoft offers diverse
services for specific roles and role
groups across perview and Microsoft
365 for instance if you are a Microsoft
365 Global admin you have highlevel
administrative privileges in your
Microsoft 365 environment similarly
someone with the information protection
admin role in purview would have
significant administrative Authority
related to data protection and
information governance let's delve
Deeper by exploring the capabilities of
activity Explorer in Microsoft perview
activity Explorer plays a crucial role
in gathering information from various
sources such as sensitivity label and
retention labeling activities from
Microsoft applications Azure information
protection SharePoint exchange and one
drive this extensive reach includes
protection related activities specific
to Azure information protection clients
and scanners along with data loss
prevention policy match events from a
spectrum of sources including SharePoint
exchange one drive and more for example
activity Explorer tracks actions like
file deletion creation copying
modification and access on Windows
devices understanding these actions is
crucial for evaluating the effectiveness
of your dat datal loss prevention
policies and making necessary
adjustments understanding these actions
is crucial for evaluating the
effectiveness of your data loss
prevention policies and making necessary
adjustments in summary content Explorer
and activity Explorer are essential
tools for data management and compliance
in Microsoft purview they Empower
organizations to curate data effectively
ensuring regulatory adherence and
optimal data utilization while providing
valuable insights into Data related
activities Microsoft's integrated data
classification capabilities with Azure
purview provide a comprehensive approach
to identifying and managing sensitive
data in an organization's cyber real
estate this video explores how these
capabilities transcend basic text
scanning by detecting primary data
matches to keywords and monitoring user
activities this system's versatility
extends to various data sources and
locations facilitating ated by data
sharing allowing secure data exchange
the suite encompasses the data map data
catalog data estate insights and the
data policy component for secure access
management what's more machine learning
algorithms strategically enhance
accuracy over time aiming to detect
content aligning with an organization's
data classification
policies this ensures the protection of
sensitive data and compliance with data
security
regulations sensitivity labels are
instrumental in this context they play a
central role in classifying data based
on its sensitivity providing a clear
indicator of whether it's public
confidential or highly sensitive this
classification guides the enforcement of
protective policies ensuring that
sensitive data is treated with the
appropriate level of security moreover
retention labels contribute
significantly to effective data
management these labels Define the
retention and Disposal policies for for
data specifying how long data should be
retained and when it should be disposed
of in accordance with legal and
regulatory
requirements combined with data
classification retention labels assist
in managing sensitive information
throughout its life cycle ensuring
compliance with retention policies the
data classification capabilities in
Azure purview also Encompass monitoring
user activities related to sensitive
data including reading altering deleting
or saving data at r
in transit or in use protective policies
such as policy tips blocking with
override blocking without override data
lockdown and teams chat restrictions can
be effectively enforced based on applied
sensitivity and retention labels in the
event of a data loss prevention incident
a comprehensive record of the event is
meticulously logged in Microsoft 365
these logs serve as invaluable resources
for review and insights facilitating the
development of further data
classification protection and retention
policies the insight into actions
performed on confidential data enables
organizations to gain visibility into
Data handling practices while adhering
to compliance and security
mandates data scanning and
classification capabilities apply to
different locations including on
premises cloud-based or on SAS
applications furthermore data found in
any services such as powerbi SQL server
or Microsoft 365 is included in the
classification process providing an
organization with Keen insight into what
data it is
storing leveraging purviews capacity to
organize data allows an organization to
catalog its information systematically
it empowers them to govern how data is
shared preventing an appropriate sharing
applying appropriate labels makes it
clear which data has been correctly
identified and treated with the
necessary
sensitivity ultimately this capability
enables a company to establish effective
data
policies this introduces another key
topic how does perview organizational
capacity translate into effective data
management to answer this question let's
explore the different components of data
management in more detail the data map
component scans registered data sources
to capture metadata and identify and
classify sensitive data it supports
various data source categories including
databases file storage and third-party
applications the data catalog
facilitates efficient data Discovery
with search and filtering options
empowering users to find relevant data
quickly data curation features and
lineage tracing are available for
subject matter experts data estate
insights provides a holistic view of the
organization's data aiding data and
security officers in understanding data
flow and sensitive data
locations the data policy component
offers centralized cloud-based
experiences for secure access management
enabling ATS scale access provisioning
and integration with data map and
catalog it includes various policy
categories like data owner policies
devops policies and self-service data
access policies and finally data sharing
enables secure data sharing within and
across
organizations with centralized
management and
monitoring this video expanded your
understanding of labels to help you
develop a panoramic view of how data can
be managed in the Microsoft environment
using perview as the central
orchestrator an organization can
Marshall all the data kept across a
range of
locations effective data management is a
Cornerstone of modern organizations and
Azure purview is the central hub for
this critical task managing diverse data
streams from user inputs applications
devices and systems requires a structure
Ed approach and Azure purviews data life
cycle management offers a comprehensive
framework to address this
challenge this video delves into the
core stages of data management Azure
purview accommodates diverse data
Origins encompassing user generated data
company specific information metadata
and data from various
systems this extensive reach extends to
the broader Microsoft ecosystem and on
premises active directory allowing
seamless integration with SAS applic
ations data ingested into Azure purview
originates from applications user inputs
devices and repositories each
contributing a unique data type to the
ecosystem once gathered this
multifaceted data undergoes careful
analysis within Azure purview metadata
is consistently added to provide context
enhance data classification and enable
effective
utilization this initial phase sets the
stage for the Azure purview data life
cycle subsequently data moves into the
processing and Analysis phase here it
undergoes operations focused on
extracting insights and executing
specific tasks these operations can
involve data transformation aggregation
and advanced analytics empowering
organizations to unlock valuable
insights from their data assets data
classification and labeling are pivotal
in the later stages of the life cycle
sensitivity labels including categories
like public confidential highly
sensitive and custom labels are employed
to categorize data based on its
characteristics and intended use this
classification is instrumental in
defining access controls and security
policies ensuring structured data
management and safeguarding sensitive
information the data life cycle
progresses into the stages of data
retention and Disposal these labels
Define the retention and Disposal
policies for data specifying how long
data should be retained and when it
should be disposed of in accordance with
legal and regulatory
requirements these labels are integral
to data management guaranteeing
adherence to retention policies and the
secure disposal of data when its life
cycle
concludes moving forward the data life
cycle includes data sharing and
collaboration this phase involves
controlled access provision to
authorized users fostering collaboration
and information exchange within and
across
organizations concurrently data monitor
Ing and security remain Paramount
continuous monitoring ensures the
security of sensitive information by
proactively detecting unauthorized
access or security breaches and
addressing anomalies promptly data
governance and compliance policies
remain unwavering throughout the data
life cycle these policies are
meticulously implemented to assure data
quality maintain data integrity and
enforce strict adherence to legal and
Regulatory standards this integrated
approach reinforces data security and
compliance making Azure purviews data
life cycle an effective solution for
managing data records and regulatory
requirements the data life cycle
culminates in the data analytics and
Reporting stages continuous data
analysis yields valuable insights and
informative reports empowering
organizations to make informed strategic
decisions and enhancing operational
efficiency and
competitiveness in the context of data
sharing collaboration Azure information
protection or AIP plays a critical role
AIP is a solution Microsoft offers to
classify and protect data based on its
sensitivity it helps organizations
ensure that data remains secure even
when shared with external parties with
AIP you can apply sensitivity labels to
documents and emails specifying how they
should be handled for instance you can
label data as confidential or highly
sensitive AI IP ensures that only
authorized users can access or edit such
information this aligns perfectly with
data security during collaboration
preventing unauthorized access and
ensuring compliance with data protection
regulations the final stage of the data
life cycle includes data retirement
ensuring data is securely retired at the
end of its life cycle and aligning with
specific legal and business
requirements this process may involve
permanent deletion or transition to our
archives for long-term preservation
achieving a balance between data
security and
practicality Azure purviews data life
cycle provides a detailed framework for
data management covering data ingestion
processing classification retention
sharing monitoring and security it
effectively integrates with records
management governance and compliance
ensuring data security compliance and
informed decision- making throughout the
entire life cycle this comprehensive
approach reinforces Azure purviews role
as a central orchestration point for
data management within
organizations in the past few days
you've delved into Microsoft's
compliance Solutions gaining valuable
insights into effective data governance
and Regulatory adherence let's now recap
the key takeaways from this week's
material you started by exploring
Microsoft's commitment to trust privacy
and compliance Microsoft's privacy
principles are the Bedrock for managing
customer data emphasizing trust building
and compliance
simplification tools like Microsoft's
priva and service trust portal or STP
exemplify this commitment offering vital
insights into compliance audit reports
data protection trust documents
compliance overview and compliance
manager integration you covered the core
privacy policies and technologies that
are put into practice to ensure customer
privacy and trust these include data
collection and classification data
encryption Access Control Data retention
policies and data transparency and
consent automated data classification
ensures sensitive data receives top
protection policies are configured to
scan for predefine sensitive information
patterns while sensitivity labels
indicate data level access and
encryption
requirements Microsoft utilizes Advanced
encryption standards and transport layer
security to ensure data remaining
unreadable during Transit and at rest
enhancing privacy and Trust Microsoft
also implements strict access controls
so that only authorized Personnel have
access to specific data based on their
roles role-based Access Control ensures
that data is accessible only to those
who need it by creating roles with
specific permissions and only allowing
access to people assigned those roles in
addition multiactor authentication or
MFA requires users to Prov provide two
or more forms of authentication to
verify their identity enhancing privacy
and Trust when it comes to retaining
data Microsoft also enforces data
handling policies defining data
retention and deletion guidelines for
various scenarios and data categories
this approach safeguards customer data
throughout its life cycle fostering
trust Microsoft's approach to data
transparency and consent is centered on
categorizing data as required or
optional an approach that improves
product documentation and transparency
through privacy dashboards and
compliance management tools you then
explored Microsoft's purview compliance
portal focusing on effective data
governance and cataloging perview
provides a central platform for managing
data by aggregating data from various
sources within the
organization integrating features like
compliance manager Insider risk
management and more now let's reflect on
what you learned about the compliance
manager an integral part of purview it's
your compliance sidekick helping
organizations align with regulatory
standards from regulatory assessment to
compliance scores the compliance manager
ensures a comprehensive approach to
compliance management data compliance
aligns with geographical or industry
specifications covering data breaches
unauthorized Access Data loss and data
storage ever wondered how your
organization is doing in terms of
compliance the compliance score is your
answer it provides a holistic view of
your compliance status reflecting
progress and risk levels compliance
manager offers detailed insights and
potential solutions to improve your
score you also learned about the
diversity of compliance requirements
across different regions and industries
each presenting its own set of unique
challenges Microsoft perview steps into
automate compliance efforts offering a
range of capabilities in including data
classification governance and
policies now let's delve into what you
covered on data
classification data classification at
its core is the process of automatically
assigning labels or descriptive
categories to various data elements
essential to this is purviews robust
capabilities that enable effective data
organization security and
compliance content Explorer and activity
Explorer are key components of Microsoft
perview content Explorer ensures
effective data curation and compliance
while activity Explorer provides a
historical view of activities accessible
through specific roles these tools play
a vital role in managing and
understanding data related
activities sensitivity labels act as
your data bodyguards categorizing data
based on whether it's public
confidential or highly sensitive these
labels are crucial for addressing cyber
security threats access control and
compliance requirements ensuring a
structured approach to managing
sensitive
data you also learned that the decisions
around data retention and deletion are
critical for organizational Integrity
perview introduces retention labels and
policies to manage this specifying how
long data should be retained and when it
should be disposed of in accordance with
legal and regulatory requirements you
wrapped up your learning this week by
discovering how Microsoft's data
classification capabilities in azure
purview facilitate the management of the
data life cycle managing diverse data
streams from user inputs applications
devices and systems requires a
structured approach and Azure purviews
data life cycle management offers a
comprehensive framework to address this
challenge the suite encompasses the data
map data catalog data estate insights
and the data policy component providing
a comprehensive solution the data map
component scans registered data sources
to capture metadata and identify and
classify sensitive data the data catalog
facilitates efficient data Discovery
with search and filtering options
empowering users to find relevant data
quickly data estate insights provides a
holistic view of the organization's data
aiding data and security officers in
understanding data flow and sensitive
data
locations the data policy component
offers centralized cloud-based
experiences for secure access management
enabling ATS scale access provisioning
and integration with data map and
catalog and finally data sharing enables
secure data sharing within and across
organizations with centralized
management and
monitoring this week has been a journey
through Microsoft's commitment to trust
and privacy understanding data
collection and classification and
exploring the powerful tools and purview
for Effective data governance and
compliance you've gained valuable
insights into to building trust ensuring
privacy and navigating the complexities
of compliance and should now be able to
demonstrate this learning in the study
checkpoint
ahead previously you became familiar
with security threats to an organization
that come from the outside this includes
illegitimate ways of entering a system
such as malware attacks and legitimate
ways of entering a system such as
identity
impersonation however there is another
threat that a company can face when
protecting data which is Insider risk
this is when company information or
infrastructure can come under threat
from legitimate users who are
legitimately allowed into a system in
this video you'll explore Insider risk
in depth along with the infrastructure
that is in place to manage it this
umbrella concept extends Beyond data to
also cover workplace
Communications safeguarding data and
addressing workplace harassment are key
aspects of compliance Insider Risk
Solutions prevent on unauthorized data
sharing abuse of language and Regulatory
breaches Insider risk management
encompasses a spectrum of potential
threats that organizations must address
these threats include leaks of sensitive
data and data spillage which is
unauthorized or accidental disclosure of
confidential data caused by
misconfigured access permissions data
mishandling or malicious intent
confidentiality violations or exposure
of sensitive information to unauthorized
individuals or entities and intellectual
property or IP theft which entails
illicit acquisition or misuse of
intellectual property such as
proprietary software Trade Secrets or
patents there is also fraud consisting
of deceptive practices carried out by
insiders for personal gain such as
financial fraud embezzlement or other
deceitful activities insider trading
which is the illegitimate trading of a
company's Securities or assets based on
non-public information often to EXP
exploit fluctuations in market value and
Regulatory Compliance violations or
infringements of industry or government
regulations potentially resulting in
legal consequences or financial
penalties Insider risk management relies
on specific principles to effectively
mitigate these threats which are
transparency configurability
integration and actionability let's
explore each of these in more detail
transparency involves balancing the
privacy of users with the need to
mitigate organizational risks through
privacy by Design architecture so user
privacy is respected while identifying
and addressing risky Behavior
configurability refers to Insider risk
management policies that are
configurable to meet the requirements of
different Industries geographical
locations and business units
organizations therefore focus on the
most pertinent risk factors integration
means Insider Risk Management Solutions
are integrated seamlessly into to
purviews broader Suite of tools this
integration facilitates a unified
workflow enabling efficient risk
identification monitoring and response
and action ability involves delivering
insights to stakeholders to facilitate
user notifications data investigations
and user
investigations these insights direct
informed actions to mitigate risks
effectively by adhering to these
principles organizations can proactively
address Insider threats and protect
their data intellectual property and
Regulatory Compliance all while
respecting user privacy and maintaining
the highest levels of transparency and
configurability
observe the infographic which highlights
Microsoft's templated response to a case
of Insider risk the creation of a case
involves a structured process first
policies are formulated utilizing
predefined templates and policy
conditions these conditions specify the
risk indic indicators within Microsoft
365 feature areas that are to be
examined these conditions dictate which
events and risk indicators are monitored
how they trigger alerts which users are
covered the services in focus and the
detection time frame alerts are
generated once these policies are in
place to monitor their implementation
they are generated by risk indicators
that match the predefined policy
conditions they are promptly displayed
in the alerts dashboard providing a
concise overview of alerts requiring
attention this dashboard allows for
efficient tracking of open alerts over
time and offers valuable alert
statistics at an organizational level
subsequently the triage phase begins new
activities that necessitate
investigation generate alerts initially
assigned a needs review status reviewers
within the organization then assess
these alerts they can open new cases
assign alerts to existing cases or
dismiss them as needed during this
triage
process this phase provides access to
alert details Associated user activity
alert severity and user profile
information streamlining the process of
identifying critical cases once the
triage stage is complete the
investigation phase commences with
creating cases for alerts requiring more
in-depth examination the case dashboard
furnishes an encompassing view of all
Active cases open cases over time and
case
statistics when a case is selected for
investigation the key tools at the
disposal of reviewers include user
activity analysis content exploration
and case
notes the user activity feature presents
an interactive chart displaying the
user's risk activities over time
allowing for detailed analysis and
filtering the content Explorer
automatically captures and categorizes
all relevant data files and email
messages associated with alert
activities facilitating easy access and
filtering based on various attributes
additionally reviewers can add case
notes in a central case note section
finally after investigating reviewers
can take actions to resolve the case or
collaborate with other
stakeholders these actions can range
from sending notifications for
inadvertent policy violations to
escalating the case to ecovery premium
in purview for more severe
incidents this struct Ed process ensures
effective Insider risk management
encompassing policy-based alert
generation streamlined triage
comprehensive investigation and suitable
actions for
resolution in this video you explored
Insider risk and its various forms you
are guided through a detailed
walkthrough of how a company will
navigate The Insider riskmanagement
workflow which facilitates identifying
and resolving internal risk activities
and compliance
issues in many different Industries
there are requirements that prevent
certain kinds of interactions in this
video you'll discover different ways in
which Microsoft can limit interactions
on its various Services different
Services have their capabilities and the
information barriers or IB are
implemented depending on the nature of
the service as well as understanding
these distinctions you'll review
scenarios that outline when IBS are
useful finally you'll learn about some
important implementation pre
requisites let's begin by defining what
information barriers are in Microsoft
purview information barriers are a set
of policies and configurations that
restrict or control the flow of
information between different groups of
users within an
organization these policies are designed
to enforce separation and prevent
unauthorized communication and access to
sensitive data information barriers are
particularly relevant in scenarios where
strict data segregation is necessary
such as Financial Services organizations
legal firms and government
agencies information barriers manifest
differently across various Microsoft
Services each tailored to address the
unique requirements of these
Platforms in Microsoft teams IB policies
focus on unauthorized communication and
collaboration which control actions like
adding members to Microsoft teams and
initiating chat sessions they can
potentially block users from
communicating with others within teams
or remove them from group chats if
necessary Microsoft's SharePoint and one
drive both utilize IB policies to detect
and prevent unauthorized collaboration
it encompasses tasks such as adding
members to sites accessing content and
sharing content in contrast exchange
online lacks IB policies for controlling
communication and email messages
therefore prompting organizations to
consider Exchange mail flow rules for
this purpose single and multi- segment
modes have had changes in IB
implementation and no longer rely on
Exchange online address book policies or
ABP and opting for IB segments therefore
promoting greater flexibility on the
other hand legacy mode utilizes exchange
online abps to assign users to specific
groups aligning them with customized
views of the global address list or gal
for short as IB policies are added
it reshapes the gal to accommodate the
IB framework this diversification of IBS
across Microsoft Services ensures
security and compliance while adapting
to the particularities of each
platform's use cases IB policies can be
tailored to a variety of scenarios to
control communication and collaboration
some examples include restricting
Finance staff working on confidential
data from sharing documents with
specific organizational groups an intern
team possessing Trade Secrets is bared
from external online chats or calls and
a dedicated SharePoint site is
inaccessible to anyone outside of that
group before diving into the
implementation of information barrier
policies there are several critical
prerequisites to address first and
foremost it is necessary to ensure that
an organization's directory data
accurately reflects its structure
including key user attributes like group
memberships and Department names
additionally it is necessary to have
scoped directory search enabled in
Microsoft teams audit logging must be
turned on to monitor IB policy
application effectively finally the mode
of the organization should be reviewed
as it determines various features and
options the different available modes
include legacy mode where the IB
policies are based on Exchange online
addressbook policies allowing users to
be assigned to specific groups and
providing customized views of the global
address list users can only be in one
segment in this mode single segment mode
doesn't rely on Exchange online abps and
there's more flexibility in defining IB
segments users can belong to multiple
segments if needed and multi segment
mode is like single segment mode this
mode is not based on Exchange online
abps it offers more flexibility in
segment definition and allows users to
be part of multiple segments it is
important to seg M your users
effectively this involves determining
the necessary IB policies based on your
organization's needs and considering
factors like legal or industry
regulations requiring communication
restrictions between groups there are
two available types of policies namely
block policies to restrict communication
between groups and allow policies that
permit specific group-to-group
communication once the policy list is
ready the administrator needs to
identify segments which are essential
for IB policies users must belong to at
least one segment and can be assigned to
multiple segments if necessary ensure
your directory data includes values for
attributes used to define segments such
as department or member of it's crucial
to have these attributes populated for
users before proceeding note that
there's a limit of 5,000 segments in an
organization with a single IB policy per
segment in this video you learned how
Microsoft can limit interactions on its
various Services different Services have
their capabilities and the information
barriers or IB are implemented depending
on the nature of the service you also
explored scenarios that outline when IVs
are useful finally you concluded by
examining some important implementation
prerequisites Microsoft purview offers
extensive flexibility in Information
Management through the provision of
granular access this is exemplified
ified in the unique approach to
role-based access control or rback for
short and the utilization of
administrative units the demand for this
tailored solution is due to the
intricate nature of the Microsoft
purview compliance Center which
necessitates a Hands-On investigation
for maintaining compliance in many cases
these compliance tasks are nuanced
requiring a distinctive approach while
maintaining data security and privacy in
this video you'll investigate granular
access through mic Microsoft purview and
how it implements arbac Microsoft
purviews compliance portal handles
permissions for users involved in
compliance tasks within Microsoft
365 it allows granular Access Control to
manage user permissions for various
compliance tasks such as device
management data loss prevention ecovery
Insider risk management retention and
more users can only perform compliance
tasks for which they have been
explicitly granted access consistent
with the rest of Microsoft Services
permissions in the compliance portal are
based on role-based access control to
access the permissions tab in the
compliance portal users must be Global
administrators or be assigned the role
management role which is only given to
the organization management role group
the role management role allows users to
view create and modify role groups
however permissions managed in the
compliance portal do not cover all
permissions needed in Individual
Services
certain service specific permissions
must still be managed in the admin
center for the respective service so if
you hold a role such as compliance
administrator you can perform tasks such
as reading and copying information but
it doesn't replace the need to manage
service specific permissions in the
respective admin centers you may need to
work in the compliance portal and the
specific service admin centers to ensure
comprehensive Access Control across your
organization's Microsoft 365 environment
perview compliance takes a distinctive
approach using role-based access control
compared to a standard arbac
implementation while traditional arbac
models typically focus on granting or
denying access to specific roles perview
compliance introduces an additional
layer of
granularity in the standard arbac
framework individuals are assigned roles
that give access to Broad sets of
organizational permissions and
capabilities however perview compliance
extends this Paradigm by employing role
groups which serve as an intermediary
layer between roles and members role
groups and purview compliance allow for
the precise assignment of permissions to
different sets of users this means not
all members of a particular role group
have identical access instead
administrators can tailor their
permissions for different members within
the same role group for instance within
a compliance administrator role group
you can assign to distinct permissions
to individual members ensuring their
access aligns with their specific
responsibilities this nuanced approach
to access control facilitated by ro
groups aligns closely with the concept
of granular access the perview
compliance approach allows for
fine-tuned control over individual
access which can be critical in
environments where precise data
segregation and information management
are Paramount furthermore the ability to
provide granular access through Ro
groups is integral to purview
compliance' Mission of facilitating
robust Information Management it
empowers organizations to implement
precise controls aligning access with
job functions compliance requirements
and data sensitivity as a result
organizations can better enforce data
segregation ensuring that sensitive
information is only accessible to those
with a legitimate need thereby enhancing
data security and compliance efforts
next are administrative units and
Microsoft purview which are a
structuring mechanism that allows
organizations to divide their internal
hierarchy into smaller more manageable
units based on criteria such as
geography departments or other relevant
factors these units Ena a precise
delegation of administrative tasks and
permissions within the
organization they are crucial in
achieving granular access control for
improved Information Management these
units allow organizations to finely
subdivide structure often based on
geographic regions departments or other
relevant
criteria this subdivision facilitates a
more organized and efficient approach to
managing permissions and access within
the
organization the responsibility for
managing members and permissions becomes
highly targeted by assigning specific
administrators to oversee each
administrative unit this in turn allows
more control of access to resources and
data while administrative units and
arbac share similarities administrative
units focus more on structural
organization and delegation of
administrative tasks at the same time
arbac defines access permissions based
on user roles and
responsibilities in this video you
realized that Microsoft purview has
strong Information Management
capabilities offering a unique approach
to granular Access Control through its
distinctive implementation of role-based
Access Control using Ro groups and the
utilization of administrative units
perview compliance provides
organizations with precise and finely
tailored access controls perview
compliance is nuanced approach empowers
administrators to Grant distinct
permissions to individual members within
the same role group ensuring access
aligns with specific
responsibilities this level of
granularity is created to ensure that
data remains segregated and information
management enforces as much privacy as
possible while still enforcing company
standards
ards by now you should be aware of the
importance of compliance rules in
various Industries and the need for
policies to enforce business specific
security and cost management rules for
resources and Azure fortunately
Microsoft offers Azure policy as a
centralized means of creating company
operational rules and ensuring that they
are observed by all employees of an
organization by the end of this video
you'll have a better understanding of
how policies are employed to over see
and enforce best practices in both
general terms and in a nuanced situation
that may be pertinent to an organization
in a given industry Azure policy manages
policy definitions for enforcing rules
and actions on resources ensureing
compliance with corporate standards and
service level agreements or slas during
both deployments and for existing
resources it also assesses and
identifies non-compliant resources
policies and azure primarily serve
compliance control and scaling purposes
enabling governance for resource
consistency Regulatory Compliance
security cost and management these
policies can identify non-compliant
resources block their creation or
enforce required
configurations Azure policy can be
divided into three intended sets which
are real-time enforcement and compliance
scale and management groups and
Remediation let's explore each of these
sets at greater depth realtime
enforcement refers to blocking the
creation of non-compliant resources
while compliance assessment concerns
evaluating existing resources for
compliance data from these assessments
fuels a comprehensive compliance view
ensuring that resources adhere to
desired States and enabling efficient
tagging
inheritance scale and management groups
are used to achieve efficient scaling by
assigning policies to a Management Group
you can affect numerous subscriptions
and their resources with a single policy
assignment policy initiatives allow
grouping policies and viewing aggregated
compliance results and exclusions
provide flexibility in managing policy
assignments finally remediation policies
automatically bring non-compliant
resources into compliance ensuring
ongoing adherence to standards while
existing non-compliant resources are
flagged they aren't automatically
changed to avoid unintended impacts
remediation tasks can be created to
bring these resources into compliance it
is worth noting Azure policy is a free
service Azure policies are used as a
mechanism to achieve two overarching
tasks the first is to organize what a
user can do with the resource microsoft.
authorization is a policy operation that
dictates policy compliance by
controlling how roles are assigned and
enforcing rules associated with the
policy the second microsoft. policy
insights is concerned with monitoring
Azure policies and extracting actionable
insights an administrator looking to
assess the effectiveness of a policy
would use this operation many built-in
rols Grant permissions for Azure policy
resources the resource policy
contributor role includes most Azure
policy operations while the owner role
has full rights contributor and reader
roles allow read operations with
contributor additionally capable of
triggering
remediation if none of the built-in
roles have the required permissions you
can create a custom role tailored to
your needs custom roles should be
designed with an understanding of
default security policies which are
baked into Azure and offer extra
functionality across subscriptions and
management groups these default policies
address common challenges examples of
which include allowed virtual machine
SKS which ensure that only allowed
virtual machine sizes or stock keeping
units are are used helping to control
costs and maintain resource
consistency allowed locations which
restricts resource deployment to
specific Geographic locations or regions
helping to enforce data residency
requirements and compliance and audit
VMS not using managed diss which audits
resources that use unmanaged diss
promoting best practices for virtual
machine or VM
storage creating a custom policy
involves identifying business
requirements ments mapping them to Azure
resource properties creating aliases for
these properties choosing the desired
effect and composing the policy
definition for example an industry that
is heavily regulated may wish to avoid
any compliance infractions as such they
may elect to create a policy that
performs data classification on all data
storage this policy may have the outcome
of blocking any storage attempt that
involves data that is deemed
inappropriately labeled this allows the
creation of centralized policies that
are concretely enforced by all employees
wanting to interact with the system in
this video you learned about policies in
Microsoft Azure you've discovered how
they are an effective mechanism for
creating a company approach to a task
and ensuring that it is adhered to you
also know how this can apply to best
practices as well as customizable to
enforce actions that are beneficial to
an organization's day-to-day
operations when an organization has
numerous Cloud environments they are
expected to maintain consistency when it
comes to areas such as applied policies
and assigned roles this can be a
cumbersome task to deal with manually
not to mention the increased potential
for costly human error fortunately
Microsoft offers a solution that saves
time while keeping things aligned in
this video you'll become familiar with
the scope function and capabilities of a
blueprint made in Azure blueprints
similar to to an Azure resource manager
or arm templates it is used to enforce
Conformity enabling a system architect
to develop unified systems you'll also
learn about the various actions which
are permissible once a blueprint has
been deployed but before you begin
consider this analogy houses in a
housing estate can be considered carbon
copies of one another a builder looking
to save time will follow one housing
plan which is repeated for every house
in the estate to achieve this the
Builder follows a blueprint Azure
blueprints serve the same function they
are plans that detail how the
environment should look they act as a
means of quickly reproducing an existing
setup Azure blueprints hold the design
for a variety of different artifacts
including role assignments which specify
who has access to Azure resources and
what they can do with them policy
assignments to Define rules and
restrictions to ensure compliance with
organizational policies arm templates
that Define the infrastructure and
configuration of azure resources and
resource groups which are logical
containers that help organize and manage
related Azure resources the blueprints
are built on top of azure's Cosmos DB a
globally distributed database this means
that regardless of where in the world
your organization is residing it is
possible to quickly spin up a working
replica the advantages to this align
with good infrastructural design
including low latency that makes
replicating blueprint objects a quick
process High availability meaning there
is no impediment to when or where you
can access them and consistency as using
replicas means that your environment
will always remain the same Azure
blueprints are a means by which an
organization can enforce uniformity
across the whole organization this
includes different departments that
might have a variety of it knowledge as
security measures are only effective if
implemented consistently across an
organization it can be thought of as an
upgrade to an arm template that has a
similar role arm templates focus on
infrastructure provisioning and
configuration but do not inherently
address governance and compliance
concerns Azure blueprints on the other
hand provide a higher level abstraction
that not only defines the infrastructure
but also enforces organizational
policies and compliance standards they
offer a more comprehensive solution for
ensuring that Azure environments adhere
to specific rules and standards make
making them a better choice for
organizations looking to maintain
consistency and security across their
Azure resources blueprints are a means
of creating a checkpoint for a version
of your
organization much like versioning in
software development a blueprint has a
unique version number as more changes
are added to the environment an
administrator can choose to publish this
publishing means that the updated
version becomes available older versions
are still retrievable in case an
organization wants to to revert to an
old setup as blueprints are the
foundation of an organization it is
imperative that they are kept secure a
hacker who gains access to the seed code
can inject some malicious content that
gets generated with new instantiations
of a blueprint as such they are
controlled with role-based access
control or arbac notable roles include
the owner which includes all Azure
blueprints permissions among other
permissions contributors who can create
and delete blueprint def definitions but
lack blueprint assignment permissions
blueprint contributors who can manage
blueprint definitions but cannot assign
them and blueprint operators capable of
assigning existing published blueprints
but unable to create new blueprint
definitions note that blueprint
assignment requires a user assigned
managed identity Azure blueprints
provide a versatile mechanism for
enforcing compliance within an
organization they offer a preconfigured
approach that governs rules and
permissions ensuring adherance to
specified standards by employing a
systematic structure Azure blueprints
facilitate the consistent configuration
of different branches or units within
the
organization These Blueprints also
enable the rapid deployment of services
while incorporating well-defined rback
controls seamlessly into the services
setup in this video you explored the
uses and benefits of azure blueprints
you should now be aware of what they are
as well as what they are capable of
achieving you also observed how they are
deployed with a range of Scopes and
permissible
actions previously you learned about
Azure blueprints what they are capable
of and how they differ from Azure
resource manager templates in this video
you'll take a deeper dive into
blueprints which can be considered in
the following way first they are a
structure from which to build a service
that conforms to organizational Norms
they can act as a centralized approach
for extending company policy to all
departments further they can be shown as
a means of rapidly creating a service
while ensuring the correct sequence of
creation is maintained in software
engineering a design pattern is a set
approach for building an application or
system it's used repeatedly to ensure
consistency and compatibility between
different components in a system Azure
blueprints are an example of this which
enables a system architect to design a
structure that is implemented in a
uniform fashion the advantages of using
a blue print when creating and deploying
resources apply in three key areas
resource locking application scope and
sequencing order let's explore the
specific benefits that blueprints bring
to each area first is resource locking
certain resources are deemed to have a
different classification perview can
automatically tag how a resource with a
specific designation will be handled the
actions that are performed for each
label however may be interpreted
differently on different levels through
use of a centralized orchestration of
enforced policy an organization can
ensure consistent handling of certain
labels and resources concretely there
are some actions that can be hardcoded
before a resource is created when a
blueprint is assigned it can be done
with specific caveats for example don't
lock means the blueprint is subsequently
customizable once deployed do not delete
means that once a resource is deployed
it is not possible to delete it although
this setting is customized
and read only means it is not possible
to alter anything note that a blueprint
supersedes an owner's permission this is
to say that an owner of a resource can
be denied permission to alter settings
on their group if it goes against
settings existing in a blueprint next
let's go over how blueprints apply to
application scope scope as you have
learned relates to how influential a
decree is blueprints can be assigned to
a range of Scopes including management
groups which allow the application to
impact multiple subscriptions and
resources under that group this is ideal
for enforcing policies and
configurations across a set of
subscriptions with common governance
requirements there are also
subscriptions this application ensures
compliance and consistency within
specific subscriptions it is possible to
create several different blueprints for
different departments for flexible
Conformity another scope is resource
groups which enable policies that are
applicable to interconnected resource
ources recall that a resource Group is a
collection of resources that interact to
achieve a given goal they can be set up
expressly for a project or be a
continuing division of an
organization in some cases blueprints
can be assigned directly to specific
resources applying governance rules at
the resource level finally one more
advantage of blueprints relates to
sequencing order blueprints are a
versatile means of ensuring compliance
by having a preconfigured approach
relating to rules and permissions
they can enforce Conformity by employing
a systematic structure for how a branch
of an organization is configured it can
be used as a means of rapidly spinning
up a service consider the situation of a
denial of service attack whereby an
organization wishes to expand
horizontally to ensure that a service
remains functioning a blueprint is an
ideal means of ensuring that the
sequencing order of the service is
created in the correct way the order in
which resources are created can be
crucial for the successful creation of a
service resources often depend on one
another which lead to issues when
creating a new service if improperly
created practically speaking you define
a blueprint that has the correct
sequence of operations this is applied
to the subscription so that when called
the service can become safe and
operational in a short period of time to
better conceptualize this consider the
scenario of a web application comprising
four integral parts virtual Network SQL
database application service and
firewall rules first you would create a
virtual Network which enables
communication between the service and
the database next you would create a
database to hold crucial application
related
information then the web app can be
created and configured to the database
and virtual Network finally you would
set rules for how the different elements
would communicate such as restricting
certain traffic creating the firewall
rule first is not advised as you may not
know which IP address to configure the
bootup series of the application may
also require information from the
database before it can launch in this
video you took a deep dive into Azure
blueprints on a high level they have
been shown to be the scaffolding from
which Services can be created in a
secure and uniform manner their scope is
adjustable depending on the requirements
further it has been shown that they can
be used to govern the successful
creation of resources while enforcing
company
compliance during this week you explored
two key areas for consideration when it
comes to implementing a plan for
securely handling an organization's data
these are Insider risk and data
governance you found that Insider risk
concerns potential threats coming from
legitimate users with authorized access
to a system and its resources while data
governance relates to keeping data safe
throughout the various situations that
it will be subjected to before you move
on let's revisit the main Concepts that
you became familiar with this week in
Insider risk management you began by
identifying the different types of
Insider risk this can consist of
illegitimate ways of entering a system
such as malware attacks and legitimate
ways of entering a system such as
identity
impersonation Microsoft recommends
adhering to four principles to mitigate
such threats which are transparency to
enable identification of risky Behavior
without compromising user or privacy
configurability to customize policies
for different needs integration of Risk
Management Solutions with other security
oriented tools and actionable insights
that guide organizations to make
informed decisions to assist in handling
Insider risk cases Microsoft has a
suggested workflow consisting of five
stages defining policies that specify
risk indicators alerts that are
triggered when risky Behavior occurs
triage to assess the severity of alerts
and assign them to cases investigation
of cases for in-depth review and action
in cases once a plan Has Come Together
note that the action phase involves
measures such as implementing security
controls disciplinary actions or
refining policies based on the insights
gained during the
investigation you then learned about
information barriers or IBS which are
policies and configurations that limit
or control the flow of information
between users and groups in an
organization these apply differently to
various Microsoft services for example
IBS can restrict communication and
Microsoft teams or they can prevent
unauthorized collaboration in SharePoint
and one drive you found that to keep
data safe it may be necessary to
implement IBS in certain scenarios for
instance you may want to block a
company's marketing team from accessing
Financial records or limit the chat
capabilities of employees holding trade
secret materials in the Microsoft
purview compliance manager information
barrier policies are primarily
implemented through role-based Access
Control otherwise known as arbac in
addition to allowing role assignments to
users and groups the purview approach to
arbac also features Ro groups these
enable administrators to tailor
permissions for individuals in the same
group resulting in more granular access
for information management and
compliance you discovered that Microsoft
aligns with the standards set by the
International Organization for standard
standardization or ISO more specifically
Azure is Guided by ISO
2701 a standard which concerns risk
management and compliance it sets a
framework for organizations to identify
and assess information security risks
Implement security controls and
safeguards to mitigate those risks and
monitor and improve their information
security management system moving on you
shifted your focus to Microsoft's
solutions for handling data governance
you first explored Azure policy which is
a comprehensive solution for creating
and implementing policies concerning
compliance of organizational resources
the three General sets of policies are
realtime enforcement and compliance
assessment for blocking creation of
non-compliant resources and assessing
existing ones scale and management
groups for achieving efficient scaling
and Remediation policies for bringing
non-compliant resources into
compliance above any established rules
Azure policy serve two overarching
functions the first is to dictate what a
user can do with the resource this is
done by controlling how roles are
assigned and enforcing rules associated
with the policy the second is to monitor
policies and extract actionable insights
that can be used to gauge the
effectiveness of the
policy next you covered Azure blueprints
a tool for creating repeatable sets of
azure resources that stay aligned with
standards and requirements you should
know how blueprints differ from Azure
resource manager or arm templates in
addition to defining resource
infrastructure a core function of arm
templates blueprints can hold artifacts
such as role assignments policy
assignments arm templates and resource
groups blueprints also feature arbac for
added security with notable roles being
the owner who possesses all permissions
contributors who can create and delete
blueprint definitions but lack blueprint
assignment permissions blueprint
contributors who can can manage
blueprint definitions but cannot assign
them and blueprint operators who can
assign existing blueprints but cannot
create new ones finally in resources and
compliance you observed blueprints in
depth and found how they can be
beneficial in three key areas for
resource locking administrators can
control the degree to which a blueprint
can be modified after deployment in
application scope blueprints prove
flexible in their range of possible
assignments and for sequencing order
blueprints enforce Conformity by
employing a systematic approach to
configuration by getting through this
week you've expanded your knowledge on
Insider risk and data governance as well
as how to handle Associated challenges
using Solutions like Microsoft purview
Azure policy and Azure blueprints this
has taken you a step further in
understanding how to maintain secure and
compliant data practices and gets you
closer to being a cyber security
expert a successful exam with a good
grade is an achievable goal if you are
well prepared and practice some basic
strategies as with all exams different
assessments may require different
strategies in this video you'll discover
the recommended strategy to employ in
order to maximize your chances of
passing the exam sc900 Microsoft
security compliance and identity
fundamentals one of the best
preparations that you can make is to
take a practice test before the exam
this way you can monitor your progress
and identify the areas that might
require a little more study or attention
throughout this course you have taken
knowledge checks graded quizzes and
completed exercises these are
specifically designed to help you
monitor your progress while preparing
for the real exam you will have the
opportunity to complete the sc900 mock
exam a little bit later which focuses on
the key skills measured in the Proctor
exam these key skills include your
ability to describe the concepts of
security compliance and identity the
capabilities of Microsoft Azure active
directory part of Microsoft entra the
capabilities of Microsoft Security
Solutions and Microsoft compliance
Solutions you have covered the skills
measured in the sc900 exam during this
program and gained significant hands-on
experience using the real world example
of Sam Scoops now it's time to practice
if you need to review anything you can
go back to any lesson to revise a
concept the sc900 mock exam is based on
a similar style and format to the exam
sc900 Microsoft security compliance and
identity fundamentals it is intended to
provide an overview of the style wording
and difficulty of the questions that you
are likely to experience on this exam
these questions are not the same as what
you will see on the exam nor is this
document illustrative of the length of
the exam or its complexity for example
you may see additional question types
such as drag and drop build list order
case studies exhibit Act active screen
with drop- down menus and option boxes
and active screen where you complete a
statement you have 150 minutes to
complete the final practice exam which
consists of 50 questions on completion
of the exam you'll see your overall
score and the questions you answered
correctly once you've successfully
completed the sc900 mark exam it's time
to turn your attention to the real exam
a good exam strategy for the sc900 exam
can be summarized with a checklist of
what to do on the test day when test day
arrives consider doing the following
ensure that you are well rested and
nourished eat a meal or a snack try not
to drink too much water so as not to
need the bathroom during the exam give
yourself enough time to get set up the
last thing you want is to feel hurried
or be late for the exam remember to
bring your current government issued ID
which must be an exact match to the name
on your Microsoft certification profile
use your phone to capture the required
headshot and ID if you're on unsure and
require more details check the official
documentation from Microsoft and Pearson
view you'll find links to these
resources in the reading preparing for
the exam the sc900 is a closed book exam
meaning that you cannot bring any study
or exam materials into the examination
with you a score of 700 or greater is
required to pass and finally take your
time and read the exam questions
carefully try to leave some time at the
end to review your answers to get a feel
for an exam go ahead and review some
possible exam formats and question types
from the Microsoft documentation in the
reading preparing for the exam you have
access to Microsoft's exam sandbox
environment which was created to demo
the interface that hosts exams to
protect exam security Microsoft does not
specify exam formats or question types
before the exam Microsoft continually
introduces Innovative testing
Technologies and question types and
reserves the right to incorporate either
into exams at any time without advanced
notice when it comes to answering the
exam questions here are some strategies
keep Cam and read the question in its
entirety before checking the answer
options students often choose the wrong
option because they have misread the
question if there are multiple answer
options try to eliminate answers you
know are 100% incorrect by using this
process of elimination you can cross off
all the incorrect answers make sure to
read every answer option before choosing
a final answer a common mistake that
students make is to rush and pick that
first answer if you're having difficulty
with a question move on and come back
after you've answered all of the
questions you know it's all about the
percentages try not to spend too much
time on only one question which may
leave you short on time for the rest
ensure that you have enough time to
attempt all the questions before
checking them at the end depending on
the question format you may not be able
to change your answer so make sure that
you have answered them correctly during
your review you may be tempted to second
guess yourself at times and change your
answer while this can work in certain
circumstances it can also be
counterproductive remember that every
step of your Learning Journey has been
preparing for the sc900 exam be careful
but try to trust your instincts the
sc900 exam does not employ negative
marking if you are unsure of a question
try and make the best educated guess
that you can this is based on existing
logic of what you know be aware that
some questions will apply partial
marking if there's more than one correct
answer required the important thing to
always remember is that a successful
blend of preparation test strategy and
exam technique will help you maximize
your chances of obtaining certification
best of
luck congratulations on reaching the end
of the Microsoft sc900 exam preparation
and practice course you have now
achieved all of the cyber security
milestones in this program this course
gave you opportunities to practice your
exam technique and refresh your
knowledge of all the key areas assessed
in the Microsoft certified exam sc900
Microsoft security compliance and
identity
fundamentals you tested your knowledge
in a series of practice exams mapped to
all the main topics covered in the sc900
exam to help you prepare for
certification success you also got tips
and tricks testing strategies use
resources and information on how to sign
up for the Microsoft sc900 Proctor exam
now that you have successfully completed
this professional certificate you are
ready to schedule the exam
sc900 Microsoft security compliance and
identity fundamentals through Pearson
view through a mix of videos readings
and exercises you have learned about the
expectations for the learning content by
starting with an introduction to the
course following this you reviewed what
you learned about the Authentication
features of azure ad like self-service
password reset multiactor authentication
and the password protection and
management capabilities available in
Azure ad you delved into the
capabilities of Microsoft Security
Solutions here you Revisited Azure
distributed denial of service or dos
protection Azure firewall Azure Bastion
and just in time access you also covered
Network segmentation in Azure virtual
networks Azure Network secur groups and
Azure data encryption you then
investigated Azure Security Management
this included consolidating your
knowledge of cloud security posture
management or cspm Microsoft cloud
Defender and its enhanced security
features as well as the security
baselines for Azure the capabilities of
Microsoft compliance Solutions is where
you reviewed Microsoft service trust
portal and privacy principles and the
compliance management features of
Microsoft purview for example
you explored the compliance portal
manager and score then with risk and
resource governance you learned about
Insider risk management communication
compliance and information barriers you
later shifted your focus to azure's
Resource governance capabilities where
you Revisited Azure Blueprints and
Microsoft purviews unified data
governance
Solutions and finally you learned about
the sc900 exam in depth including how to
prepare for the proctored exam then you
covered topics concerning Microsoft
certification this focused on the
various exam Preparatory items that you
later undertook next you explored the
concepts of security compliance and
identity this included reviewing
important topics like the zero trust
model and authentication and
authorization you examined the
capabilities of azure active directory
or Azure ad which is part of Microsoft
entra this included the identity
services and identity types in aure your
ad such as internal identity hybrid
identity and external identity types
completing this course contributes
towards gaining the cyber security
analyst professional certificate from
corsera this certificate not only helps
you to enhance your skills but also gain
a qualification that can lay the
groundwork for a career as a cyber
security analyst it serves as proof of
your job Readiness and can be shared
with your Professional Network to round
off your learning you took a mock exam
that has been set up in a similar style
to the industry recognized sc900 exam
the exam sc900 measures your ability to
describe the following concepts of
security compliance and identity
capabilities of Microsoft entra
capabilities of Microsoft Security
Solutions and capabilities of Microsoft
compliance solutions to complete the
exam you should be familiar with
Microsoft Azure and Microsoft 365 and
understand how Microsoft security
compliance and ident identity strategies
provides an endtoend solution across
these
platforms you'll have an opportunity to
later explore some additional resource
links that will help you prepare further
for the exam
sc900 Microsoft security compliance and
identity
fundamentals remember that upon
successful completion of the sc900 exam
you can share your certification which
enhances your cyber security analyst
portfolio this is evidence for potential
employers that you are motivated capable
and not afraid to learn new things your
journey of Discovery has required a
great deal of perseverance and you
should take pride and how far you've
come continue the great work during this
final lap of your Learning Journey feel
free to recap any learning material
until your exam completing all of the
cyber security courses in this program
was no small task and is an amazing
achievement that has provided you with
Newfound knowledge it has been a
pleasure to accompany you on this path
of exploration
good
luck this course can help you jumpstart
your career whether you're new to the
field or just wanting to refresh your
knowledge as a seasoned professional as
technology evolves and becomes more
robust with security protocols hackers
also become savier in their Cyber attack
methods by taking advantage of
technological advancements businesses
are required to increase their security
measures to secure and Safeguard their
information devices and assets because
of this sought after professionals such
as cyber security analysts cybercity
engineers and security Engineers are in
demand to actively anticipate detect and
mitigate cyber attacks or system
vulnerabilities are you intrigued by
this career field and wondering how to
get started let's meet a few candidates
and explore their career paths and how
they got started Alex is currently a
successful customer service
representative at a call center she is a
high school graduate and is well-versed
in Microsoft 36 6 five applications
she's also upskilling herself with
macros and Visual Basic for applications
to automate some processes in Microsoft
Excel Alex's natural career progression
is to move to a managerial role where
she can receive promotional benefits and
a salary increase however Alex has her
sight set on moving to an IT role within
the digital technological industry she
has identified cyber security as
interesting and her research has
confirmed that specialists in this field
are in demand she favors the career of a
cyber security analyst it'll allow her
to help protect a company's Network and
assets including hardware and software
from cyber attacks she'll be responsible
for staying AB breast of cyber Trends
within the threat landscape and
identifying suspicious behavior that may
threaten the company's confidentiality
or damage the devices her plan is to
focus on gaining qualifications in this
area which will allow her to begin
applying for entry-level cyber security
jobs Alex is a beginner but has already
mapped out her career and certification
path with a view to getting ahead Alex
has enrolled in the Microsoft cyber
security analyst professional
certificate which began with the
introduction to computers and operating
systems and security she enjoys
self-paced learning because she works
shifts in her current job once she has
completed the sc900 exam she will begin
applying for jobs as a junior cyber
analyst Alysa has worked as a CL work in
the motor vehicle sector for four years
and security of information is part of
her work-related tasks she became
interested in it related issues when an
online website that she subscribed to
suffered a data breach as a result she
has become conscious of how her personal
information is gathered stored and used
online Alyssa wants to know more about
cyber security in hopes of understanding
and assessing how security is handled by
online companies that she deals with she
would also like like to be able to
protect her own devices prior to
enrolling in the Microsoft cyber
security analyst professional
certificate program Alyssa completed
several in-house workshops on data
protection and data security upon
completing the sc900 exam she has a
deeper understanding of the threat
landscape and how to mitigate risks
against cyber attacks through this
program she has extended her
Professional Network with the
relationships she has developed with her
classmates during these courses Alyssa
has also been promoted to her company's
in-house security engineer where she
maintains all the computers and networks
against suspicious cyber activity in her
private capacity she's continuously
broadening her skill set to not only
identify suspicious cyber Behavior but
to create protocols and software that
defend the business against cyber crime
as the business expands Alyssa hopes to
be promoted in the future to security
engineer manager and expand her team
through the recruiting process you you
may find yourself in a similar situation
to Alyssa deciding to change careers can
be daunting Alyssa found the change
rewarding so taking the step can lead to
you being instrumental in identifying a
need in your current workplace and
pioneering a new role that is mutually
beneficial and fulfilling for you and
the company Josh would like to advance
his career he graduated with a masters
in computer science Josh has more than
four years working as a software
developer he wants to add new
credentials to his portfolio and expand
his expertise Beyond software into cyber
security Josh aspires to become a
qualified cyber security engineer based
on his research of the role he feels
that his attention to detail and
inclination to problem solve would stand
them in good stead a cyber security
engineer develops and implements
security systems they monitor and
evaluate an organization security
measures to protect their data from
cyber attacks or unauthorized ized
access some of the day-to-day tasks
include performing security assessments
and audits crafting solutions to
security V abilities and investigating
cyber criminals and threat models if
this describes your ideal workday then
this is the program for you Josh
completed the series of courses in the
Microsoft cyber security analyst
professional certificate program as well
as the sc900 exam he is actively
pursuing his cyber security career by
earmarking his next Microsoft security
certification program in his Learning
Journey congratulations on taking this
first step toward a career in the Cyber
secur field by the end of this program
you'll emerge with a stronger
foundational knowledge and you'll be
able to make more informed decisions
about where to proceed next some
additional links to the various
Microsoft certifications are provided at
the end so that you can explore them in
more detail good
luck
