greetings Canada we are anonymous their
message is blunt and unapologetic we are
forced to be reckoned with anonymous as
a goal that needs to be achieved nothing
will stop us from achieving that certain
goal we will go after anyone that we
feel needs to be taught a lesson and
they mean it
this is anonymous a secretive leaderless
hacker collective Anonymous represents a
new kind of hacker the activist dramatic
political and very public posting their
videos on YouTube but hacking existed
long before anonymous the explosion of
the internet brought the explosion of
hacking and hacker culture with its own
rules hierarchy and code and there are
different kinds of hacking some are
criminal others political and some
actually hacking for good the line is a
really tough one to draw but you know
hacking is anyone there's good hackers
there's bad hackers there's hackers for
do what they do in order to find out
vulnerabilities and weaknesses and
applications and computer systems in
order for us to be better protected and
then there's bad hackers who use it for
you know making a name for themselves or
just make you funny regardless of
motivations all hacking relies on a
powerful set of skills that both build
and dismantle a game of cat-and-mouse
where the stakes have never been higher
and the rules are tested yet still
undefined there is this battle between
good and evil going on this is a billion
dollar plus industry in North America
alone in terms of cyber crimes you don't
really need to know anything about
hacking to be highly successful welcome
to the group twelve IT in the news
project if you haven't guessed it by now
our presentation to you will be about
the ever-increasing threat of cyber
security and how it impacts today's
business environment our presentation to
you will cover
the history of cybersecurity mainstream
threats for 2013 and our recommended
solutions the history of cybersecurity
can be traced back to as early as 1945
when Rear Admiral grace Murray hopper
discovered a moth trapped between relays
in a navy computer she referred to it as
a bug which was a term used since the
late 19th century to refer to problems
with electrical devices in 1963
programmers developed the American
Standard Code for information
interchange or u.s. ASCII which was a
simple computer language that allowed
machines produced by different
manufacturers to exchange data in 1969
ARPANET was launched by the Advanced
Research Projects Agency ARPANET was an
early network used by government
research groups and universities and the
forerunner to the Internet the early
1970s see a growing trend in the popular
subculture of phone phreaks
or freaker's who used blue boxes as tone
generators to make free phone calls
popular phone freaker's include Steve
Wozniak of Apple who built his own blue
box which he sold to fellow UC Berkeley
students with the use of a blue box
phone freaker's could unlock a tMT's
phone network to make prank calls or
have access to free telephone services
in 1979 engineers at Xerox Palo Alto
Research Center discovered the computer
worm a worm is a short program that
scours and network for idle processors
it was originally designed to provide
more efficient computer use it is the
ancestor of the modern worm which is a
destructive computer virus that alters
or erases data on computers in 1983 the
term computer virus is coined by Fred
Cohen to describe a computer program
that can affect other computer programs
by modifying them in such a way as to
include a possibly evolved copy of
itself then in 1984 the term cyberspace
is popularized by author William Gibson
who used the word to describe the
network of computers through which the
characters and his futuristic novels
travel the first computer virus was
released in 1986 known as the brain the
virus is released by Pro
in Pakistan the next major cyber attack
occurs in 1988 Robert Morris unleashes a
worm that invades ARPANET computers and
disables roughly 6000 computers on the
network by flooding the memory banks
with copies of itself
Morris is fined $10,000 and sentenced to
three years probation
finally in 1991 norton antivirus
software is released by Symantec this
marks the release of one of the first
antivirus softwares available from the
1990s on cyberattacks have been
increasing with famous attacks including
the solar sunrise the Melissa virus the
string of DDoS attacks the code red worm
and the Nimba virus the list of cyber
attacks continues with more and more
computers targeted with each attack in
addition to the growth in the number of
attacks and the number of infected
systems the sophistication of the
attacks continues to increase as we can
see from historical trends cyber threats
are becoming more frequent more
dangerous and more specialized there are
three focal points in the world of cyber
security and potential threats as we
look forward to 2013
first the widespread use of multiple new
platforms creates new points of attacks
for hackers second as exploit kits
become more powerful and prevalent while
at the same time enabling use by less
technically proficient users attacks are
going to increase third we can see from
historical trends that attacks are
growing in sophistication often
targeting specific organizations or
governments this trend is unlikely to
revert so users and IT managers will
need to remain current on trends in
cyber security assaults mobile usage is
increasing exponentially especially as
users gain access to smartphones and
tablets in fact in Australia and the
United States an Android device is more
likely to experience a malware attack
whether failed or successful than a PC
over a month-long period employers
looking to curb costs as the price of
new devices continues to rise are
turning to bring your own device or BYOD
policies and they
building users to access company or
government information from personal
devices opens up another frontier for
cyberattack
additionally mobile devices offer unique
points of attack due to the microphone
and camera hardware inclusions in
addition to data actually stored on or
accessed from the device attackers may
be able to use the phone as a
surveillance tool to gather more
information often cyber exploits take
the form of executable files in the PC
environment on mobile devices that allow
the usage of apps security can be more
difficult to achieve Apple's App Store
is known for a very strict oversight
that is managed to control release of
malicious or rogue applications too most
iPhone users Android now the most
popular OS for mobile devices is not as
secure users have the ability to
download apps from multiple sources and
even directly install them on their own
this is a key concern for IT managers
considering allowing usage of Android
devices for work purposes Eugene
Kaspersky predicts that attacks on the
Apple iOS platform will increase now
that more software engineers are seeking
training for the Mac environment for
example in early 2012 nearly half a
million Mac users were infected with the
flashback trojan the cloud perhaps one
of the biggest buzzwords of the last
year or so the cloud allows users to
access information from almost anywhere
attackers may choose to exploit this in
a variety of ways stealing or destroying
key data using denial of service attacks
to prevent legitimate use or even
hijacking cloud traffic and redirecting
it to other potentially more dangerous
malicious content these attacks can all
cause significant disruption to
businesses so IT managers should
carefully consider the decision to push
forward with cloud computing
particularly in regards to security
social media is a new platform that
allows complete strangers to gain more
access to information about others
making the fraud more credible according
to a recent study as much as 15% of all
Facebook users have never even looked at
their privacy settings similar to older
email exploits social media allows
access to an individual's entire social
network rather than just their address
book additionally the speed of
information shared on
social networks and the type of
information shared tends to make users
more curious and susceptible to
fraudulent activities such as the posted
reference did you see this embarrassing
photo of user and then redirects the
user to malicious content
additionally sources like LinkedIn
provide access to information about
where users work and where they attended
school make incredible conversations
more possible as attackers may pose as
alumni or professional associations when
attempting to gather information
Foursquare and other check in functions
on social networks provide geolocation
tracking for even further exploit
possibly used in combination with other
information gathered to access and
control bank and financial records and
transactions offering access to those
bordering on the computer illiterate
exploit kits are the readily available
equivalent of the for dummies book
series in the cyber assault world often
found via underground or black market
channels exploit kits are essentially
pre-written code that target
applications with known security
breaches and users who rarely update
their software generally the kits
require no knowledge of how the exploit
works and users simply deploy them and
then login to a landing page that allows
access to features like which systems
have been attacked have been
successfully exploited and then enabling
monetization of the exploit in several
ways approximately 70% of all exploit
kits currently originate from Russia
lastly cyber attacks are becoming
increasingly sophisticated and often
targeted at specific organizations
corporations or governments these
attacks are gaining popularity because
there is significant monetary value that
can be associated with cyber attacks and
perhaps more concerning is the ability
to capture headlines groups of cyber
criminals or protestors are loosely
claiming the title of hacktivists
targeting government and corporate
networks to draw attention to their
cause 2011 and 2012 saw numerous attacks
from groups such as anonymous introduced
in the opening video and subsequent
arrests of activists have taken place
but the reality is that they are likely
here to stay into the foreseeable future
nation state-sponsored attacks or
warfare has entered the public
consciousness one recent example is that
of Stuxnet a computer worm discovered in
2010 believed to have been created by
the United States and Israel to attack
Iran's nuclear facilities one of the
more dangerous threats that has come to
rise oblate is the advanced persistent
threat or apt apts are very
sophisticated and customized malware
exploits that lie dormant for a period
of time before wreaking havoc on
unsuspecting users these targeted
attacks are significantly more difficult
to defend whether it's for a hacktivist
organization's cause or a
state-sponsored assault one thing is
clear which is that individuals and
organizations need to protect themselves
and stay current on the latest exploits
techniques and trends in cybersecurity
as only relying on antivirus software
and basic firewalls alone is likely
going to be insufficient going forward
in response to these cybersecurity
threats
businesses and individuals can implement
solutions to increase security for their
mobile devices cloud computing and
personal information found on social
media sites in addition to that we will
discuss how the risk of exploits can be
mitigated and the recent government
involvement in cybersecurity there are
many solutions to protecting users
against mobile cyber security threats
the first solution is the Equipment
Identity register which is a nationwide
database built and maintained by
wireless companies this database
prevents smartphones reported as lost or
stolen from being activated for voice
and data services by thieves next we
have the password mobile device lock
which is available on almost all
smartphones new features like minimum
password length and password complexity
requirements have increased mobile
security users can also remotely lock
and remotely wipe their smartphones data
in the event that devices are lost or
stolen with applications like Find My
iPhone for iPhones and remote lock for
the Android phones mobile device
management software secures monitors
manages and supports mobile devices
companies that implement an MDM policy
would require company mobile devices to
access information by using a compliant
password
this would allow the company to remotely
wipe any devices that become compromised
a virtual private network or VPN extends
a private network and the resources
contained in the network across public
networks like the internet a VPN
provides security so that traffic sent
through the VPN connection stays
isolated from other devices on the
public network there are a variety of
encryption options for data that resides
on a mobile device encryption transforms
information rendering it unreadable to
anyone except those possessing the
correct login or key information
likewise encryption can also be used to
protect data in transit as it moves from
a mobile device to a mobile network next
depending on the operating system
anti-malware and antivirus software may
be available to prevent detect and
remove malware of all descriptions
including viruses malware adware
backdoors trojan horses and worms as
companies expand their BYOD policies
they should also look into software
solutions that provide a separate and
secure virtual environment for BYOD
mobile devices lastly since a user
single password can be stolen or guessed
users can use two-factor authentication
which can include a digital identifier
or time-based random number in addition
to a password
examples of these two-factor
authentication can be found through text
messages a random number identifier
commonly used in many mobile banking
apps companies and organizations looking
to migrate to the cloud should ensure
that the company they choose has been
certified and has successfully passed
third party audits one such important
certification is ISO 27001 which
requires a management actively manage
information security controls on an
ongoing basis as a nature of
cybersecurity threats change next it is
imperative that the clouds host has the
latest security initiatives in place to
protect its infrastructure to include
the facilities network and hardware as
well as the operating system this can be
done through employing a variety of the
latest IT security standards to ensure
your clouds host is resilient to
hardware failures or cyber attacks a
business
new management system and plan is
important such a plan should include an
automated process which would move
customer data traffic away from servers
or data centers that have been
compromised
lastly network security and cloud
services is of the utmost importance a
cloud host secure network architecture
should consist of network devices
including firewall and other boundary
devices that monitor and control
communications across the entire network
and a key access points securing a cloud
services access points allow users to
establish secure communication cloud
hosting can provide transmission
protection by connecting to the clouds
access points through a secure sockets
layer or SSL which is a cryptographic
protocol that is designed to protect
against eavesdropping tampering and
message forgery here are some tips to
help protect yourself from cyber attacks
via social media protect your passwords
by not using the same password for more
than one site and choose one that means
something to you only in particular
don't use your online password for any
other site and be sure to change your
passwords frequently secure your answers
by keeping personal information about
yourself private including family
members school telephone numbers exact
birthday and address and never confirm
or update personal information requested
via email this threat is called phishing
strengthen your settings by setting up
privacy restrictions on all social media
sites and reconsider geolocation apps
that reveal your physical location be
less friendly by being skeptical of
strange people posts pages and
information never open emails from
strangers and never click on links or
open attachments for unfamiliar sites it
is important to note that one in five
Americans have been the victim of a
cyber crime yet only 15% of all
Americans have ever checked to see what
their social networking privacy and
security settings are when it comes to
combating the threat of exploit kits the
first step is to mitigate the risk this
should be a two-pronged approach
starting with assessing your
vulnerabilities and performing
penetration tests
penetration tests can help businesses
understand weak points by intentionally
hacking their own systems before a bad
guy does the second step is to plug the
identified holes in your system this
could be as simple as ensuring that all
software updates have been deployed on
all devices connected to the company's
network ensuring that employees are
using a secure browser and using auto
update features for all computer
programs one way of helping to prevent
exploit kits from stealing information
is to use techniques like code signing
and digital signatures code signing
allows businesses to protect their users
data from software that has been
tampered with by malware
lastly security cannot be treated as a
set and forget function all security
processes need to be evaluated on a
continual basis to ensure your
organization is not just protected from
the risks of today but also the threats
of tomorrow with the rising threat of
cyber crimes the United States
government has also become involved in
February of this year President Obama
released an executive order designed to
strengthen the cybersecurity of American
businesses by increasing information
sharing between companies first the
executive order allows US companies to
share threat and attack information with
each other this enables companies to
learn what is happening to other
organizations so that they can better
protect themselves from similar threats
additionally the order calls for the
development of a cybersecurity framework
by the National Institute of Standards
and Technology this will help reduce
cyber risks and prevent attacks by
ensuring that a common core of standards
is being used across the board to do
this an ist will work to identify the
current consensus standards and
incorporate industry best practices into
the cybersecurity framework on behalf of
group 12 I would like to thank you for
listening to our presentation if you
have any questions please leave them on
the discussion board page for us to
answer now for your viewing pleasure
stay tuned after the references for a
top 10 list of computer hackers watching
this video is optional of course thank
you again and enjoy
in their indictments they say I left the
network's open to further attack but the
networks were completely open to attack
and I never had to break into the right
log run
we
you
