all right so yes finally I'm bishar I'm
having like overall so 12 plus years
nearly like you know 14 years of
experience in this multiple domains of
experience currently I work in Google as
a cyber security engineer and again mine
is like completely Cloud sof security
engineer and again where I need to go
with like to like application security
network security data security Cloud
security un information security
security under compliance and governance
all the things I us to go with on this
right so now one of the interesting
topics we also doing with AI and ml data
security how we can go with hand to hand
implementations with the secure
development life cycle policies so how
can we use and again what the tools we
can going to use for like know Ai and ml
Concepts like know idas tools intr
detection systems and again prevention
system tools also we can use endpoint
production systems like know example
like a sentinel Microsoft Sentinel we
can use that one and you can also like
know security information and again
event management tools we're using like
know spunk here
especially and again also like we using
like know threat intelligence platforms
like especially working with like threat
connects I mean threat models especially
and also like know fishing deductions
and we are more focusing on like know
data loss prevention techniques how can
we prevent this one with the semantic so
to understanding this semantic we should
know first know secure development life
cycle with data loss prevention policies
those are like know how to identify for
the data identifications with know
financial
data Phi datas know any kind of like how
to implement with data protection roles
like know preventive controls and
monitoring controls and user roles and
permission levels transfer policies
levels and again incident responses
levels all these things that will be
this is like one of the major topics in
the
AIML this is one of the cyber security
concepts with nowadays it is a newly
implementing to the AIML because you
these are the algorithms and again these
are the models what came
recently right so again we are going to
use the tools here especially Splunk IBM
C and also like we using like idps tools
like core impact also right anyway that
we will be discussing in the later point
now uh last but least utkus so hi
utkus hello
hello
hello are you
there is it
aible
hello you're
audible yeah exctly thank you mankos how
about you
I think is in
M okay this is a demo class of
completely cyber security and what the
security and again you guys know that
right so what are the Securities we are
doing this implementations all these
things now meanwhile to understand this
areas what is cyber security first thing
why we need to learn this cyber security
and again what is the difference between
cyber security and again ethal hacking
all this
play right and what are the types of
sties we
have all the things we can see
now is it my screen is
visible hello yeah it's a zoom actually
yeah now came up okay we'll go with to
understand with I make you to
understand simple
cyber security how PP and P send the
documentations cyber security and list
the types of cyber
security simple
okay so we have completely cyber
security is nothing but in simple way to
understand cyber security is a umbrella
and in the umbrella when we open the
umbrella there is a n number of threads
will come H and spoke right those SP
work are called as a network security
application security information
security endpoint security Cloud
security identity access management and
operational security disaster recovery
and cryptography incident responses
security awar training and again
physical security and again is the data
security here data security is like one
more area
Okay more I'll show this Lee think the
types mobile security iot devices
security yes this is what especially in
the mod cases you should more deeper
into the data security and again data L
prevention stuff okay and P policies
also all these things like we should
practice on this right and again
critical infos security how to maintain
and again web security how to do this
and again print testing again how to do
this one assessment and can threat
intelligence and blockchain and is one
no need to do this yes forensic inent
analysis this is very important and
again red team and again blue team
depending upon the which team you are
going to work on this that is very
important thing you need to understand
and again identity access management and
again governance level especially this
is the top most priority section
especially in the data L prion
implementations right these are the
types of Securities like example if I
give like more still show
me here comes like you know artificial
intelligence am and again ml Securities
involving like using Ai and machine
learning algorithms to detect anomal and
can predict threats automate responses
so all this things
Okay C if I show this small example on
this
case and
ml this
see this is what we need to focus like
especially applications of AI and again
ml security thre detections by default
we can use snot tools any kind of Spun
tools and you can also Juniper Networks
all these
things right and can fishing detections
and again by default Mal Anis yes user
and again entity Behavior analytics
default vulnerab management World
notability management thre intelligence
all these things clear
so this is what I end to end we focusing
meanwhile
here first thing we can go with the
deeper level see
network security in the firewall mode we
can use this tools so follow hard and
Cisco AI 4 we can download the free
tools we can do with this firewalls we
can use and again idps interion
detection system prevention systems and
again we can use this open source
tools VPN we can use openvpn or cisq
connect endpoint security we can use
stic make Cafe and endpoint detection
and ding we can use like Crow strike Pon
or El
Sentinal see right now we are using
Sentinal here so okay one again I'll
show this in my company sentinol see
sentinol one is already it is installed
C right so whatever I'm doing the
tracking and again how to prevent this
all theas will be pring it see I click
on this
Sentinel so it is already running but I
don't want to open this one
now right then again application
security definitely we are going to use
ver code sonar both and th we can use
WhatsApp B both the rols and SSO we
using SSO and Can Microsoft Azure with o
l multiactor authentications yes we are
using and in Pam also we going to use
cber or all this tools but depending
upon like which security you have to
focus see as a cyber security engineer
you should have all this knowledge but
in a companies you'll be going to work
only the specific domain if you
application security working the
application security
and again data security team you'll be
the data security team right then again
incident responses team vulnerability
management team thre intelligence team
foreign investigation team security
awareness training team something like
know a and again ml teams see here
thread detections see a ml what and all
we are going to do thre detections
insent responses also we can do fishing
detections and malware Anis just I'm
using the charart GPD to make you to
understand what exactly the tools we are
going to use and again here we are going
to use all the tools this tools is
commonly used for normal security also a
ml tools also we going to use and again
management again we can use like know
either K security these are like know
open source tools and can intelligence
all
this in the a ml only we having like
thre detections insurent responses
fishing detections malware analysis
under vulnerability management all these
things right
any questions here up to
here Vish are we going to learn about
ethical hacking as well or is it comes
under
cyber security or a different domain no
comes that is a different Ealing is
different again it comes under only the
cyber security how to prevent this all
these things so all the domains we going
to work in the all these domains we
going to work in the a cloud see suppose
we don't have un promis INF right now
I'll show
this all these
tools
compare all
these types of
and
tools comparing this Azure gcp in table
format
example see suppose in the on
premises
okay for
let see
see these are the open source tools
we're going to use like no snot if
suppose network security in the databas
Cloud suppose take an example in databas
Cloud we can log into the databas cloud
see now it is all what is the cloud
basically cloud is a collection of
domains if someone is working in the
database domain if someone is working
with the network domain how to make the
network security data security and
database security and the application
security the on premises they will do
but in the cloud multiple domains will
be deployed there and you can how to do
this all this domain
security make it not one
second yeah each and every tool we
should learn network security identity
access management data protections
endpoint security thread detections and
again responses application security
compliance and governance one management
inent responses encryptions monitoring
loging so these are the tools these are
the open source tools we going to use
and on top of this open source
tool on top of this open source tool
we're going to use AWS property tools
compare compare the tools
for
each types of
Securities
for Azure
GC see example take an example network
security open source tool where you're
going to use snot and what is the
benefit here inion detection and again
prevention systems detects and again
prevent insurances uses what is use
cases protects Network and again from
Mal no is suppose I'm going to use notot
every day and again this C also we can
going to use this one for container
applications definitely we are going to
use
snot snot and again key clock open L we
are going to use this two for Iden
access management for data Pro open SSL
j&v PG also two things we can use
endpoint security definitely CC and
again CS we're going to use open DXL and
in the I we can use application security
two things I'm going to use here open Z
and again busit Cloud security scan if
you want we can use and again compliance
and
governance we can use
here open
SC and sc one Management Open b n to
both instant expenses again the I only
and encrytion SSL from this Gra
suppose on top of this we also need to
learn like there's a sad Cloud if I
click on this so
suppose if I click on cloud security
post management cloud mapper and again
configurations of this and again
security monkey and
okay okay see this also we should learn
here see Cloud security post management
this is a open source tool Cloud we
should use and you can also cloud map
this is helps you to analyze your head
services within the diagram and will be
finding the complet one the output looks
like this okay then again CCPA is
nothing but C right confidential
Integrity availability right so how to
use this one all these cases next Cloud
mapper it is a security monkey monitor
for red gcp and open
St clear the output looks like this
and again last one security
TOS cloud
mapper cloud mapper is already a
shown yes Cloud
mapper this show
F okay
now this the types of
Securities
inws Azure gcp and open source
tools
equalent yes see now it CES perfect so
now open source snot surata pfSense if
we use the snot in the code we going to
use Ed firewall manager Shar with Shi in
the Azure Azure firewall Azure D and the
Google code Google code armor and VPC
service control
okay the thing is why today the market
is more important in the cloud security
because all the companies are moving to
the cloud and even though in the
government sees they Appo the
application to the cloud areas right so
that's why in the a this Services we
should learn but here I'm going to take
two clouds one is another one is either
JP either azure here and again identity
accessment first we should learn open
source tool how to use this one key
clock open ad app then again in I
am am how to use and C how to use for
that you should know basic understanding
of the Aus
Cloud play right
everyone what is the prerequisite for
this uh
training the prerequisite you should
know one of the thing mainly OS layer OS
basic networking skills we should have
and again basic operating system skills
we should have and again basic python
scripting we should have on top of that
if I if I'm opening the network security
the end to end CCNA knowledge we should
have that will be covered here
only clear
it yes clear clear hello yes with yes
sir are we going to learn
metwork yes default tools metal spit B
suit snot right and again all the open
source tools and again all the open
source source tools how to implement
into the a cloud those are completely
Cloud Securities with a multiple domains
with open source
tools okay okay sir
right yes sir
do do you have a day wise syllabus or
something where we can go through like
know how
it know continue how we'll continue it
are you guys planning for weekend bches
or weekday bches if it is all
well actually uh see I'll tell you as
for seeing the syllabus whatever you
like know that is that is I feel that is
like know pretty big so I don't think
that 10 weekend batches will or five
weekend batches will accomodate
everything I think weekday batches only
I'll be looking for so anything you are
like is there please let me know yeah
please you know one thing cyber security
is a vast area and in meanwhile network
security minimum it will takes two two
weeks because I want to understand how
to use the open source tools and yes I
can understand like by using the open
source tools this is good now now if I
use the load how to implement the open
source tools and also how to use the AWS
prerequisite AWS property tools how to
use network security two weeks identity
access management two weeks at least one
week for that data production one week
endpoint security exactly three days we
required thre detection and responses 3
days application security we required
like one week compliance and governance
3 days is enough vulnerability
management teams two days is enough
inent responses two days encryptions
definitely request minimum 3 to four
days monitoring logging it requ know one
day but to implement and again to
capture it but this is more again
compliance governance one more and again
perameter security physical security
Cloud security there like any number of
security suppose take an example now as
a udai yes boss I don't want to learn
all the Securities I want to focus only
that is a mo requirement I want to focus
only data productions for this data
Productions how long it will take for
this data Productions I can take only
three weekends that's like two weekends
two two hours classes three weekends but
cyber security why I made with a less
package of 15,000 rupes to learn all the
Securities because you guys today is a
world because whichever the field might
be get what is it lesser jobs or there
might be like a lot of firing but
especially in the cyber security it will
be keep on extending the jobs more and
more right now in India less skilled
people especially in the government
sectors they require more cyber security
engineer
if we have this cyber security tag we
can rule like anything for that we
should understand like end to end cyber
security types C right after that
ethical acing see this is the cyber
security we should use all the tools why
we are going to use all the tools
because whatever I did suppose if I
created a network suppose take an
example if I created a Willa in my place
for that Willa if I kept the compound
whether that compound is correct or not
and again if anyone is penetrating my
compound wall or not and again if anyone
is if anyone is jumping to the my
compound how many of them are jumping
and how to know all the things we are
doing with a physical security right
that physical security we dealing with
either security either security guards
either CCTV cameras but in this case if
I create a application suppose take an
example data Productions in the data
Productions if I get the data from the
banking database how can the data will
be transferred with the secure mode so
for that we should know the encryptions
and again withl format so those are the
things we should understand this are the
very very prerequisite to get the
knowledge play right this is like
maximum as a weekend batches if you want
to join weekend batches also we can join
or else if you want to join to my
personal batches the same fees also here
that will be 9 months sorry 3
months
right what are the timings for your
batch no if because already two batches
are running the morning batch it is one
week is over for that but if you guys
are okay to join
everyone so I planning for like know
night
time in my IST night
time around what time to what time Bally
so night time of the timings will be uh
I'm planning for like uh 10:30 I mean
yeah 10 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. 10 p.m. to
11:30
p.m. you don't have anything like now
little before like 6:30 7:00 around
there is availability time but you know
I'm doing with one data list dat classes
there it is the ending of like you know
after five days it will keep on ending
that in that batch if you want I can
schedle that Tims 6:30 to
7:30 uh I think that is suitable for
me how about
moan sir but uh if if we skip any
session then we will recording sorry if
I am unable to join the session
and we will get recorded recorded video
yes s this will be regularly will be
available okay then no
problem
ready how about
moan evening 6:30 to 7:30 right yeah 72
8:30 we can plan it like this yeah 728
8:30 that
I'm okay with that okay then
udk
omaran yeah I'm also okay yeah for you
also right yeah yes
yes one one more question I have sorry
one more question I have actually like
know you have a syllabus like know PDF
or something can you put it on chat or
something we'll download it and see and
second thing what is the prerequisite in
terms of Hardware or anything else like
know required so you have to inform us
so we have to arrange or something like
that yeah so now the hardware is you
should have a good laptop there and and
again for network security one
management no need to buy any rotor
switches just everything we can use in
the CL because in the a load everything
there is a multiple domain see be
devops dat Ops MLS
wish
password three four
pass see here we do have multiple
domains here we have multiple domains
suppose if I take the one domain
networking content domain in this
networking content domain I want to I'm
going to share my knowledge on premises
tool how to implement and again
meanwhile you should understand the if
it is if I'm working with the networking
level how the UN premises networking
routers switches how they configure
subnets how they configure public IPS
and again private subnets all these
things we can go with like VPC level R
53 private gateways all these things
first I will show this one then again
after that I will go to that for each
domain this is one
thing
it yes correct
okay I'll share my syab one second
syllabus I
kept now the sessions will be conducted
on week days right yes yes so if you
want like not tomorrow like on small
demo if you want to see with the
practically we can also see thator
practically if you guys sfed you guys
can pay the Fe to the d s and actually
my personal bades I charge nearly 65,000
for three month three and half months of
this completely service security with
multiple but the soft is my
collaboration I mean NE so that's why
know he's telling that to support so
that's why the same pH I'm taking and
again I'm merging my personal students
and I'm merging this dof students and
again there's there's no P discussion
only the technical challenges
discussions and again the more advanced
technology discussion that is what like
I'm doing this
and okay
okay because generally my personal
batches I do stay in Bangalore I charge
for each stent 65,000 with the security
three and a half
months but luckily your bches like three
to four members will be there extra
please uh don't communicate with this
what that Financial
stuff sure sure no problem we will not
what are the career opportunities in Cy
sec I'm now playing the delivery
Ro
sorry carer opportunities like how we
can grow in this okay I want to
understand know small thing uh in which
domain currently you are in I mean what
is the role you are
handling I'm currently playing a
delivery manager role managing a
projects for uh retail supply chain the
applications are uh built on Java micros
services and the server application
everything is posted on your cloud and
uh they are also you know supporting
products for demand forecasting and
generation order generation and we are
also exploring AI tools and uh building
a small a
application know managing all the
projects
okay got it got
it
okay so it's me CLE so don't worry about
that I understand the career opportunity
will be like huge career opties and
especially you are a delivery manager
and In This Cloud Securities you can
learn all the cyber security types and
the tools and how to do this what is iel
but I understand as a delivery manager
there's no time to learn like end of the
year meanwhile you can have intermediate
knowledge and again the high level
knowledge on this and again as a
delivery manager right now in the
industry especially in the cloud
security they required like more
compliance and governance in that domain
you can go that is also the part of
cyber security there that is also one of
the type of security if you know
application security network security
data L preventions and data security and
Endo security compliance and governance
this five out of 18 18 to 20 types of
security these five types of security if
you have there's a huge demand in the
market and you can double the package
example if your packages 40 at least you
can demand like now 50 percentage
minimum 75
plus so for that if you want any kind of
for that if you want like any kind of
instructions all these things I'll be
supporting for
that and will you also support to
prepare any certification in this B
yeah CSP you can go
that see right now example there's one
real time scenario yesterday in my one
of the cloud I have launched like 10
servers in one server I got like know
this are the one I want to find out
which servers and again I need to update
like all the patches here like this for
that the is asking like one of the good
question what is the prequit yes
operating system Linux should be know
you should know like thly L commands and
in the second thing you should know
networking basic commands networking
Concepts basic Linux commands basic
Linux voice and in the basic python
scripting and all the Securities that's
what I know the first two weeks I'm
taking the basic networking Concepts
understanding and in the operating
system Linux commands all these things
right yeah thanks yes clear yes sir if
he doesn't know that one then no need to
learn service security because please
see right now I'm finding the one vulner
here right so to find out this one one
vulner they're telling that like we
should install this patch we should
update this patches and again I cannot
able to copy like one by one line and
again I can run write a python code to
to install all the patches at the
time right so that's why the first tutor
is the basic Linux basic Lin supporting
system concept networking Concepts then
again basic python introduction and
again meanwhile some shell scripting
then again we can go with like know our
application Security One topic network
security one topic data security one
topic and INF Security One topic
information security other topic and
again Cloud security all these
things thank you everyone so we'll
connect again tomorrow and again we'll
understand this Concepts okay
