[Music]
what is big data big data is extremely
large or complex set of data and it's so
large that it's difficult to process it
using traditional database and software
techniques
every day we are creating approximately
2.5 quintillion bytes of data so where
is this huge amount of data getting
generated from
earlier we had mobile phones with the
functionality of calling and text
messages or clicking some pictures maybe
but with the new technologies like
smartphones we have a lot of
applications for music sports social
media like Facebook Twitter Linkedin and
many more also data is getting generated
when we shop online so why does it need
attention as the data is growing
companies are capturing the data that
streams into their businesses they can
apply analytics and get significant
value from it with better speed and
efficiency
companies are leveraging the benefits of
big data by analyzing the patterns and
trends and predicting something useful
out of it for example companies like
Amazon and Netflix use big data to
improve customer experience as we see
here from the statistics shown by 2020
1.7 megabytes of data will be created
every second for each human this needs
immediate attention because this data
can't be just thrown away it's going to
give profit to the businesses big data
challenges big data is not just about
the volume of data it poses other
challenges as well like velocity and
variety as a
volume 40 zettabytes of data will be
created by 2020 this huge volume of data
is either human generated like from
social media YouTube or candy machine
generated like through sensors and
personal health trackers and can also be
generated with organizations like card
details commercial transactions and
medical records another challenge is
velocity
the speed at which data is coming into
the system the data needs to be
processed with faster speed and then
there is variety of data data is not
only structured but unstructured and
semi-structured data like images videos
and tweets
so how our enterprise is using this big
data today let us see Big Data popular
use cases
Internet of Things
these are numerous ways in which
analytics can be applied to Internet of
Things
for example sensors are used to collect
data that can be analyzed to achieve
actionable insights tracking customer or
product movement etc
many enterprises are creating a
dashboard application that provides a
360-degree view of the customers that
pulls data from a variety of sources
analyzes it and presents it to customer
service so that allows them to gather
the rich insights about businesses big
data popular use cases are related
information security and data where has
optimisations big data tools are being
used to remove some of the burdens from
the data warehouses even the healthcare
industry is looking for patterns and
treatment that lead to the best outcomes
for patients
the main challenge of Big Data is
storing and processing the data at a
specified time span the traditional
approach is not efficient in doing that
so Hadoop technology and various big
data tools have emerged to solve the
challenges faced in the Big Data
environment so there are a lot of big
data tools and all of them help the user
in some or another way in saving time
money and uncovering business insights
these can be divided into the following
categories like data storage and
management for example the no sequel
databases such as MongoDB Cassandra neo
J and HBase are popular nice no sequel
databases the talent Hadoop Microsoft HD
inside and zookeeper are popular for
data storage and management tools
next broad category is data cleaning
data needs to be cleaned up and
well-structured
examples of such tools which help in
defining and reshaping the data into
useable data sets are Microsoft Excel
and open refine data mining is a process
of discovery in sites within a database
some of the popular tools used for data
mining are Terra data and rapid miner
data visualization tools are a useful
way of conveying and complex data
insights in a pictorial way that is easy
to understand for example tableau and
IBM Watson analytics and plotly are the
common tools for data reporting power bi
tools are used data ingestion is the
process of getting the data into Hadoop
Ford which can be done using scooped
flume or storm data analysis requires
asking questions and finding the answers
and data the popular tools used for data
analysis are hive Pig MapReduce and
spark data acquisition is also used for
acquiring the data for which scoop flume
or storm tools are quite popular
the popular Big Data tools offer a lot
of advantages which can be summarized as
follows
they provide the analyst with advanced
analytics algorithm and models they help
the user to run on big data platforms
such as Hadoop or any high-performance
analytic systems they helps the user to
work not only with structured data but
unstructured and semi-structured data
coming from multiple sources and it's
quite easy to visualize the analysed
data in a form that helps in conveying
the complex data insights in a pictorial
way which is easy to understand by users
big data tools help you to integrate
with other technologies very easily
thank you so much for listening to the
video
hey want to become an expert in Big Data
then subscribe to the simply learned
Channel and click here to watch more
such videos centered up and get
certified in Big Data click here
