in this video we're gonna look at what
data mining is and we're gonna introduce
some fundamental concepts we need to
understand how it works
informally you can think of data mining
as the process of using a computer
program an algorithm to find patterns or
relationships in your data for example
you might want to be looking for what
combinations of symptoms will allow you
to reliably diagnose a patient another
example of data mining if you are
someone who is running a store you might
want to know what types of products
customers tend to purchase together at
the heart of the data mining process is
some type of machine learning in which
we apply an algorithm it learns
something about the data and these are
called machine learning algorithms
ultimately we're going to look at three
different types of machine learning in
this class but for now we're primarily
going to focus on classification
learning so in classification learning
we're trying to figure out how to
classify objects or entities on the
basis of their characteristics so maybe
you know a bunch of information about a
customer of your store or potential
customer and you're wondering whether
that customer is likely to buy a
computer in the course of the next year
you just want to be able to have a
pretty good idea yes they are going to
buy it no they are not going to buy it
and so what you need to do in order to
perform classification learning is you
need to have what is called training
data a set of training examples where
each example is a single customer in
this case and we have a bunch of
information about the customer we have
the customers ID agender the age whether
the customer is a student what the
customers credit rating is good fair
excellent
and then this is the important part we
already have classified each of these
examples we already know whether the
customer bought a computer or not
and the idea then is that the algorithm
is going to take this training data and
produce a model of some type that we can
then use to classify new examples to
predict in this case whether a new
customer will buy a computer in the next
year one possible model you could learn
from these training examples and by the
way I've only shown you five customers
you want as much training data as you
possibly can get but one possible model
that might be produced is what is known
as a decision tree and this is based on
our training data the actual process of
finding the tree determining the treaty
is something we're going to get into
later but once we have learned the model
from the training data we're then able
to use it to classify new examples so
here I have two new customers I know the
same information about them as before
except I do not yet have a
classification for them I don't know
whether they're going to buy a computer
and that's what I want to be able to
predict so to apply my decision tree I'm
going to start at the top and work my
way down so if we focus first on the
first customer ID 333 you can see we're
being told to look first at her age and
you can see that she's 68 and as a
result we're going to go down the branch
that is labeled greater than 65 because
her age is greater than 65 we go down
that branch that brings us to the next
thing that we should look at which is
her credit rating and because her credit
rating is fair we're going to go down
that branch and that brings us to a box
with a classification and in this case
that box tells us that no we should not
expect her to buy a computer that's our
prediction for that customer let's go to
our next customer we again start at the
top this customer's age is 23 so we go
down this branch which is the less than
35 branch by the way notice there's a
middle branch here for customers whose
ages are between 35 and 65 but in this
case we're going down this branch
that then tells us to look next at
whether the customer is a student and in
this case the customer is a student so
we go down the yes branch and that
brings us to our classification for that
customer which is yes we predict that he
will buy a computer in the next year now
when we're talking about our training
data every row is referred to as an
example or an instance every column is
referred to as an attribute and we can
divide up those attributes into two
types the output attribute is the one
that we're trying to be able to predict
that's our classification column
everything else is an input attribute
the model that we learn takes the values
of the input attributes and gives us a
value for the output attribute in the
case of our decision tree it took the
values of the age student and credit
rating columns and it gave us a
prediction for whether the user would
buy a computer my computer was our
output now another way to distinguish
between the attributes is on whether
they are nominal or numeric nominal
attributes have values that are
essentially names of categories in this
case most of the attributes are nominal
gender student credit rating and buying
computer numeric attributes as you might
expect have values that are numbers but
what's especially important here is it
has to make sense to compare those
numbers using greater than and less net
so for example in our model we were
basing our predictions in part on things
like was the age less than 35 and that
kind of comparison makes sense because
it does make sense to say whether
someone is less than 35 and that might
have an impact on your predictions but
for something like ID even though the
values are numbers that's not truly
numeric because it wouldn't make sense
to base your prediction on something
like whether the ID was less than 300 it
doesn't give us useful information about
the person in order for us to apply
classification
learning we have to have a single output
attribute whose value we're trying to
determine so in our case we did and then
the other thing that made this
classification learning is that that
single output attribute is nominal for
classification learning that has to be
the case the thing you're trying to
predict has to be a nominal attribute
and the input attributes can be either
nominal or numeric there's no
restriction there now let's imagine we
change the problem so instead of
predicting yes or no we're trying to
predict a probability that the computer
will be bought by the customer in the
next year well now our output attribute
is numeric and therefore it can't be
classification learning anymore instead
it's now numeric estimation and this has
a completely different set of algorithms
and it produces different types of
models and we'll talk more about this
later on it's worth noting that here
again the input attributes can be either
nominal or numeric what matters is that
the output attribute is numeric and if
it is you have to do in America
estimation instead of classification
learning
