dead nerds in this video we're going to
be going over what I'm learning as a
data analyst in 2024 we're not only
going to be covering the core skills
that are necessary to land a job we're
also going to be focusing on other tools
during this AI Revolution that we're in
a lot of the top analytical tools have
been stagnant in development for years
now however there have been a lot of
upgrades this past year to help
streamline analytics last year I built
an entire data analyst portfolio Project
without writing a single line of code so
the barrier to entry to become a data
analyst and actually analyze data is
getting lower and lower now if you're
new here I'm Luke a data analyst my
Channel's all about tech and skills for
data science and previously in a past
life I've worked as a data analyst in a
variety of roles from Corporate America
all the way to last year working for the
number one YouTuber Mr Beast now prior
to this 5 years ago before I was a data
analysts I was transitioning out of the
military where I served on submarines
and it turns out in the civilian world
there's not a lot of Need for these type
of skills but I love data and I decided
to go this route I loved it so much that
I started this YouTube channel to share
my findings I've interviewed countless
other data nerds in this journey and
I've started to see the effect of these
new AI Technologies on our job so I
wanted to put together this video in
order to roadmap what tools I think you
should be learning as a data analyst and
that I'll be sharing on this channel as
well but before we get into any
futuristic tools we need to look at what
are the core tools that a data analyst
should just generally know for their job
so as that analyst let's look at some
data here's my app data nerd. Tech not
talk about it way too much anyway it
Aggregates job postings for data nerds
and here I have the top skills listed in
job postings for data analysts first is
the most popular skill of SQL or if
you're not a lazy English speaker SQL
now this is the programming language in
order to communicate with a database and
if you look at this there's a whack
of databases in order for you to choose
from which one do you choose well we're
in that in a bit so SQL tops the list as
the most important skill of data analyst
and also a lot of different data nerds
anyway it's in almost half of all
posting next up is Excel our favorite
spreadsheet software that is a tool that
should be used for ad hoc analysis in
order to do some quick calculations but
instead companies are using it in ways
that it shouldn't be using it and
causing it to be a little overhype and
this hype causes it to be the second
most important skill as it's listed in
onethird of job postings next up are
coding languages which here we have
Python and R now both these tools in my
opinion are used to flex on your Excel
co-workers that don't know how to code
and unlike Excel with some of these
languages you can do everything from
Advanced Analytics all the way to
machine learning and it's this reason
that chatbots are using popular language
like python to perform analytics behind
the scenes anyway for R they're only in
about one of six jobs but for python
they're coming close to Excel and almost
a third and last up on this list are
visualization tools specifically Tableau
and powerbi these type of tools help you
build interactive dashboards and
visualizations for your non-data nerd
friend I've spent weak building some
dashboards that my co-workers never use
so now that we have these top tools out
of the way let's actually dive into what
I'm going to be learning in inside of
each of these tools and how I'm applying
AI to each all right first up is SQL and
for diving into each one of these
Technologies we're going to be
referencing the 20123 developer survey
from stack Overflow it surveys over
90,000 developers and has insights into
leading Technologies now I've tried out
and used a lot of the different popular
options here on this list so which of
these am I going to focus on this year
more importantly that you should learn
well if we actually adjust this Poll for
professional developers we see that
postgress is topping the list however
when sorting for those learning to code
my SQL tops the list by far postgress is
now down in fourth plate now MySQL is a
lot more beginner friendly whereas
postgress is a bit more advanced that's
why we're seeing professional developers
use it more so which one am I going with
well there's also this poll on admired
and desired desired is the proportion of
respondents who want to use a technology
and admired are those that have used the
same technology in the past year and
want to continue do so for this
postgress dominates the field not only
is it the most desired but it's also the
most admired I tend to weigh the admired
score more because I want to understand
what developers are actually using and
what they want to continue to use and
with this it's pretty clear they want to
use postgress and not MySQL but as a
beginner I don't think you should be
worried about whether you're going to
pick the right database to start with if
you actually dive into the Syntax for
popular queries for both of these
options you find that they're actually
pretty much the same so if you learn the
basics of MySQL you can apply that to
postgress so what exactly then am I
going to be focusing on with SQL if that
syntax doesn't really matter well I'm
trying to learn how to use AI to speed
up my work flow with writing SQL queries
right now I'm using the AI coding
assistant GitHub co-pilot in order to do
this but I think I'm missing something
yes it can autocomplete along with
answering my questions regarding queries
but I feel like there's so much more
previously I was using chat gbt and now
a deprecated plugin notable all I had to
do was ask it a question and it would
generate the SQL on its own to query the
database I didn't even have to know SQL
but that notable plugin got cancelled
last year and it ruined my entire course
that I built on chat gbt that was a
whole another story so now actually
looking for understanding what other
tools are available to interact with SQL
to speed up my workflow so I'll be
exploring that this year on this channel
all right next up is Microsoft Excel
there were two major advancements last
year Microsoft 365 co-pilot and python
in Excel and they're both kind of
related let me explain first up is
co-pilot Microsoft teamed up with open
AI as they found out that chat gbt is
basically a freak in the sheets they
call this freak Microsoft 365 co-pilot
with this you can not only ask it
questions about your data of which it
will provide some surface level insights
but the more important thing is it
actually can dive into the data
analyzing it and providing graphs For
You released last November it will cost
you an additional 30 bucks on top of
your current Microsoft subscription
however there's just one big catch
Microsoft is only allowing those that
buy a minimum of 300 licenses to access
this Advanced tool doing some math only
have to spend $113,000 a month in order
to get this feature anyway the second
major feature inside of excel is the
introduction of python this allows you
to as you guessed it run python in Excel
now be honest most of the stuff you can
do with this new feature you can already
do with vanilla Excel so why was this
released now when both these
technologies have been available for
decades well my theory is that was
really released to support making it
easier to do calculations inside of
excel if you recall how chat Bots are
now using python for calculations well
that's exactly what Microsoft has built
here to support calculations inside of
excel anyway I'm excited to dive into
this Microsoft 365 co-pilot as soon as
they remove that 300C limit in order to
better understand how to use use this
tool and better control Excel and the
integration of python which I think it
doubles down on the importance of
learning python which the next thing
we're going to cover is programming
language so for this we have two options
Python and R which one should you learn
well personally I started with r and I
think it's a great easy tolearn language
to start with and the Google data
analytics certificate which I'm a big
fan of for beginners also agrees with
this but as I've progressed in my career
I've needed a more advanced tool python
is a multi-purpose language whereas R is
specifically designed for analytics and
can't do a lot of the stuff that python
can do whereas the vice versa is true
shoot this entire app of data nerd. Tech
was built using python from the data
scraped from the internet to displaying
it on this screen R couldn't have done
this and that's part of my goal this
year and using AI with python to build
out this app even more and there were a
lot of advancements last year with AI
coding assistants not only they good at
speeding up your workflow but they're
also good at helping you learn a
programming language so GitHub co-pilot
tops the list and is popular among not
only professionals but also those
learning to code but after this poll was
released there's been a lot of big
developments at the end of last year and
a lot of competitors specifically Google
just introduced their new coding
assistant called Duet AI which not only
works inside of things like VSS code and
py charm but you're also able to use
this assistant inside of your different
Google workspaces Now the other one I'm
keeping my eye on is from the team
behind the popular python IDE p now the
team at jet brains just rolled out this
tool that has a lot of similar
functionality to duet aai and GitHub
copilot so I'm going be testing out this
year all these assistants to find out
which one is the best AI assistant but
more importantly I'm interested in
learning about how I can use these AI
assistants to learn a programming
language and then share it with you so
stay tuned it has some futural tutorials
on how to learn things like Python and
also SQL while using AI tools to speed
up your learnings all right with that
let's get into the next one of VIs tools
with the similar programming languages
you have two popular options should you
learn powerbi or Tableau I'm biased to
powerbi cuz I think it's a little bit
more Superior with its integration of
power query and also dax's functionality
this allows me to clean and access data
much more easily the problem with
powerbi is that it doesn't have a strong
Community when it comes to sharing
dashboards whereas Tableau leads in this
area with Tableau public as it is a
resource for you to go and share your
work with the community anyway both
these stagnant tools both got some major
AI upgrades this year power bi
introduced a very basic version of
co-pilot inside of this app and this
allows you to write Dax functionality
and so it saves me a lot of time from
having to jump back into chat gbt and
then back into powerbi now this is only
a limited feature of co-pilot as
Microsoft has shown that they're plan to
integrate it fully into powerbi to help
even build out dashboards and that would
be a GameChanger now Tableau has also
gotten some upgrades this year although
they haven't been as vocal I feel as
powerbi well mostly tableau's parent
company is Salesforce and their CEO
tried to poach members of the open AI
team during the whole Sam Alman Fiasco
back in November bold move cotton now
Tableau and also Salesforce are not new
to AI they've been trying to develop
their Einstein analytics now for years
and they're building out their
competitor Tableau GPT which basically
allows you to use natural language in
order to analyze data so when we look at
all the top tools of a data analyst we
can see that they're affected greatly by
all these different AI advancements now
there's something not on this list that
would be remiss if we didn't talk about
and stack overflow beat me to the punch
by including this new section on AI
search Tools in their survey this year
it's pretty clear from these results
that Chad gbt is dominating the field we
should basically also consider it taking
up the second spot as well as being AI
is basically chat gbt now although it's
been the dominant player Google is
trying to catch up as they recently
launched Gemini which they're saying is
competitive with open ai's models
although they fold us all with this
Hands-On demonstration I still think
it's promising it's even been leaked
recently that they have an advanced
version similar to that of Chad gbt Plus
so competition is heating up another one
I've been testing recently is perplexity
which I'm finding is replacing my normal
workflow of going to Google instead I'm
using this as not only it provides a
quick summary of what I need but also
links to all the different sources and
it's fast AF the space cowboy himself
Jeff Bezos invested in perplexity
recently now valuing this company at
half a billion dollars now for all these
chat Bots and AI assistants that been
speaking of they're all powered by large
language models or llms and all the ones
I spoke of previously are closed Source
but I think there's hope for the open-
source LOL Community the leading
competitor in this space mistal AI just
closed its last funding round at $415
million valuating the company at almost
$2 billion now this is crazy that a
company is valued this high and their
main product is available for you to
just download and use for free anyway
I'm really eager about developments in
the open-source Community because this
allows two great things one is improve
data security
now I can take these large language
models and host them locally process my
data locally and I don't have to worry
about Sam Alman stealing it additionally
if I'm hosting this model locally I
don't have to pay Sam a subscription fee
I just have to pay my own server fees
and I think this is a win-win now with
all these different AI advancements that
I've been covering to this video you're
probably a little worried that this is
going to replace your job as a data
analyst well let's look at these words
from Sadia nadela and today we have a
vision for a c-ai pilot that can Empower
every person and every organization on
the planet to achieve more and countless
other Business Leaders and CEOs have
echoed these same claims these AI
assistants aren't being made to replace
you in your job but instead they're made
to actually assist you in your jobs and
a recent KPMG survey shows this in it
they ask Business Leaders how generative
AI will impact their headcount within an
organization and over half expected to
expand the number of people in their
organization most notably some of the
most popular roles they intended to add
were around data scientist and analyst
we have data to support that AI is not
necessarily going to take our job and
instead Business Leaders want us to use
it on top of this Harvard released this
study which tested those that used AI in
their jobs against those that don't use
Ai and spoiler alert Consultants using
AI were significantly more productive
they completed 12.2% more tasks on
average and complete a task 25.1% more
quickly and produced significantly High
higher quality results more than 40%
higher quality compared to a control
grip so I think the DAT is pretty clear
not only is AI here to stay but it's
here to improve our jobs all right if
you'd like to learn more about how I
would go about learning to be a data
analyst check out this video right here
and with that I'll see you in the next
one
