everyone and um happy weekend so I hope
it's a good start of your weekend and um
first of all kudos to you guys that
you're using this weekend morning um
afternoon for some it might be morning
as well so uh you're using it to up
skill and to know how you can advance in
your career okay so uh from the chat um
I'm trying to get to know the audience
and um
I see that a few of them are saying that
um abishek is saying that they are new
to data analytics and uh there Sophia
who is from MSE information technology
and she's currently doing internship and
data analytics so um resume not getting
shortlisted is one problem yes because
uh there can be multiple things out
there uh one that you might be applying
to a job where uh there are a lot of
people who are applying to it and the
selection is already done
or recently I was reading in the news
that people are also saying that if
you're over qualified then also you
might not really get into that was just
oneof situation but generally you get
the interview calls um so today's
session we are going to see that how you
can crack an interview in Microsoft of a
data analyst so before that I would like
to introduce myself um I have been
working with Microsoft from past um like
from the start of my career and I was
one among the top 10 uh data analyst in
Microsoft India where uh uh we were just
starting the data analyst team in
Microsoft so it was pretty new uh job
profile for Microsoft team as well uh
all that while it was Data analysis was
done through the third parties and not
really from at the like from the fds
level the full-time level so uh it was a
great venture to know exactly how uh the
the pilot version of data analytics team
has formed and we have come so far now
uh and we see that nowadays like data
analysis is really uh something that
everybody talks about and it's needed so
in my career I have worked B about 25 to
32 it was uh not only just being but
there are many other products that I
have worked in Microsoft so uh it was a
great experience as I had got an um
chance to work on diverse data sets and
uh there were different challenges in uh
different uh products so uh there were
products from B there were products from
cotana copilot recent one was copilot
there something you you guys have heard
of uh Viva topics uh that is something
that we have been working on and uh
every now and then there are different
tools that we get to uh work with as a
Microsoft data analytics in during my
career I've also got a chance to uh be a
site lead for the semantic machines team
which was becoming uh like Cortana was
becoming semantic so before the copilot
story uh the Cortana existed and we were
trying to um like uh reform quana into a
version who would understand semantic
um and yeah I think that's about my my
career uh for now and we will quickly
delve into the topic for today like how
we want to actually track the interview
of data analytics at Microsoft um so for
that um a couple
more okay is if my voice is breaking
again then let me know uh I hope it is
better now
so uh there are few questions that's
coming in so do pour in your questions
for me for coding ninjas and uh also
coding ninjas is working with no.com so
in case you have any questions for um
all of them and regarding job boot camp
uh since coding Ninja's job boot camp is
also sponsor in the session so if you
have any questions regarding all of
these things do pour in in Q&A we will
answer it at the end of the session and
in between also we will try to address
few uh questions if there are any okay
so I'll start with sharing my screen
that I have prepared I have charted down
all the possible um tips and tricks that
worked for me for my uh from my mentors
for my mentees I have prepared if there
are uh some things that they wanted to
learn from it and uh these are few
things that I have learned from my team
members from my managers uh what worked
well and what did not work well so uh
one thing I would want to uh share is
that
uh this is just the best practices and
it is not a short short method to crack
the uh interview at data like as a data
analyst in Microsoft uh because every
team might have their own uh set of uh
requirements or problem to solve So
based on that they would put different
type of rounds and different type of
problems challenges that you have to
solve uh using these
uh in this job right so based on that
you will have different rounds or
different way that they would check your
skills okay so depends on managers
depends on team as well like um if they
can be a team of 30 members they are
trying to fit you in and you need to
know how to work with those people there
can be remote settings there can be
people who are working with clients
offshore so all of these things
situations would occur and based on that
different situations will be there and
uh there'll be different way of gauging
um a candidate and this is something
that worked for me and few of the people
that I know in my network so that's what
I'm sharing over here okay
um so uh firstly is what it is like to
work as a data analyst at Microsoft is
like it's a definitely fascinating role
and uh it definitely comes with a lot of
opportunities to uh work with different
and diverse data sets it can be very
simple data said it can be very complex
one right so all of this is done to
extract meaningful insights um you would
be helping data scientists program
managers the data managers you would be
helping uh engineering people uh it
could be anyone you could be helping
with these data analysis business or
analyst or there many um more
opportunities that you get as a data
analyst at Microsoft to um help people
and collaborate with them so uh it's all
about you know blending analytical
skills with the Microsoft robus tools
and platforms that's available generally
it's Microsoft tools and platforms if
you're working in Microsoft um it is
some sometimes inhouse tools and
sometimes it is borrowed tools it can be
also tools that's widely used across the
globe as well um and what it is involves
is like telling data stories to solve
business problems and how you can enable
B uh businesses to gain insights for
making the right decision so um based on
your team's work or your individual work
uh a product can be shipped or stoed as
well so that's how uh it can go Global
it cannot go Global so data analysis can
play a big role um again how how much
data from where you're getting the data
also plays a a big role so uh
proficiency uh matters a lot and being
proficient in performing data analysis
and proposing solution to enhance
processes and performance uh while you
identify the areas for improvement using
your analyticals and problem solving
skills right so the more experience you
have the more uh uh things you can get
to the table the ideas the problems and
everything you can solve if you have
good experience or good Hands-On tools
or if you are aware of what uh you are
going to solve and how you can solve
right if you if you have some background
knowledge then you you can solve it
easily or you might if you don't have
that knowledge then you might end up
being in uh a place where you're not
having any knowledge on how to solve
right so it's better to have more and
more experiences and more and more
learning
at Microsoft it's generally told that
it's a continuous learning thing and not
only Microsoft but I think it's it's in
entire Fang and all the uh big companies
say that you need to continuously learn
with Advent of AI obviously there's so
many things that you need to keep
learning um so what do you think when
you apply at Microsoft matters uh
because uh how would you prepare your
mind then right so
uh uh you need to uh do like why are you
applying at Microsoft it's it's Prestige
and Mobility that you need to take care
of uh like basically applying at
Microsoft is something which is
prestigious if you you would think that
okay if somebody is working at Microsoft
it means something a lot and even
worldwide you can see that um having a
fan company on your resume significantly
enhances your um market desirability and
job Mobility right so uh this Prestige
can lead to better career opportunities
and U sometimes higher salary so you
will have access to latest Technologies
and tools as well while enhancing your
skills in productivity so uh this is
like the latest tools you having so you
are solving the latest problems uh
sometimes those problems are not solved
by uh uh some other people so those are
unique problems so you are solving those
problems and uh at at these big
companies you have an opportunity to
collaboratively work with people you
have competitive benefits so there is a
thing that you can specialize on and
definitely you will have a a role and a
project for that then uh you can work on
high impact projects uh at these
companies but again how to prepare just
to cut you I'm really sorry to cut you
in middle I just wanted to check is are
you sharing first slide intentionally or
are we not able to see
it uh I'm sharing the first slide okay
okay sure sure sure thanks
[Music]
is it
better actually it was better only I I
was just wondering and some other
Learners were also wondering if you are
intentionally sharing for slide or you
have missed you know
slide okay okay so yeah I was just
trying to share like how you you would
just apply and how to prepare the mind
so uh few things that were at the top of
my mind I was trying to share but um
however we can just move on and see okay
one important thing that I was covering
was that if you are trying to apply at
these companies then you need to make
sure that you are applying in a very
competitive market because a lot of
people are applying there and uh that is
something
that people with lot of experience also
can apply because they want to get into
this place or even the freshers can
apply so uh it totally depends on how
you presenting your resume how you are
uh applying for that particular job so
you need to take care of all of these
things uh when you uh try to apply for
the job because if you want to get into
an interview then first thing is you
have to apply for the job and get an
interview call okay so to achieve that
uh firstly we'll see what what all roles
are available for as a data analysis you
can see different titles available for
us uh when we are trying to apply for
data analysis in all the companies it's
not only restricted to Microsoft but all
the companies you're trying to apply for
you can have different titles sometimes
it might be data scientist or data
engineer as well
so sometimes the data analyst work on a
very simple task
be it labeling as well or be it just
Excel simple Excel or data entry also
sometimes that can also happen or it can
go to complex things like creating ETL
pipelines or creating reports for
directors the partners stakeholders
managing the stakeholders um managing
the project insights as well sometimes
you will have to work with even the
project leads and many other people so
it can go from a very simple work uh to
a very complex work as well and you
might have different uh projects
different teams hiring data analyst So
based on that you might find different
titles these are few titles that you
need to keep an eye when you're trying
to apply as a data analyst so
um a few screenshots I have got from
carriers. microsoft.com and uh you can
see what all qualifications are required
and you can identify that there are some
teams which is hiring you can see here
that we are a data and applied science
team which is hiring for Windows tabat
so if you're applying for this job then
you are going to work with Windows team
here and the qualifications that's
required is mathematics and SQL and uh
ability to perform statistical analysis
and all of these things so I'll quickly
jump to the main sections because it's
already 20 minutes so you can see a few
qualifications over here and uh this is
coming from April's job and there's some
U VX organization hiring this and
um you have few more from other
countries not only just India in us also
they were hiring and you can see four
plus locations and here you can see
again they are hiring someone who who
have mathematical skills so the skills
skills can vary from being very
technical being very U you see having
mathematics and statistics heavy to
maybe just the data entry sort of thing
also
um then you have particularly financial
analysis internship opportunities and
there are times right now where
internships are offered at Microsoft so
uh why I'm sharing all of these things
is to get an interview call you need to
prepare your resume accordingly and we
need to analyze the job first what you
are applying you need to study
thoroughly what job you're applying just
don't simply apply because you are just
simply losing your one opportunity out
there so try to apply and uh with full
preparation and you can see that you can
identify these responsibilities are
there when we have gone through the uh
opportunities the opportunities that
I've shared just now you can see that
these responsibilities are there so if
these things fascinates you these things
are something that you like then I would
suggest that you go for uh this job role
if you don't have the interest uh it's
difficult to do good in the interview as
well right and uh you will not
understand few terms if and then the job
would become difficult basic thing right
so uh these are few responsibilities
that you need to take care and it's
crucial for a data analyst role in
various
organizations so uh it's you need to
take care of these and if it's there
then try to include these in your
resume so how you can tailor your resume
to get shortlisted at the top companies
is like you have to firstly keep it very
simple and easy to read because uh
frankly nobody would really spend time
on figuring out how to read that resume
um I have also heard that uh the resum
get scanned within 20 seconds also so
how much you can cover in that 20
seconds so try to keep it simple and
easy um you can provide few links to a
few fancy things be powerbi report or
presentations or all of those things and
keep it public if you're trying to
provide those links if you are providing
links which are having a uh requests
permissions and all of that then
obviously it's not a good experience so
if you want to do something fancy
provide links in your resume that might
really if they are interested then they
would click on the link and uh get know
more about those fancy things in your
resume so firstly keep it simple and uh
easy to read or try to avoid as fancy
things as possible be like you providing
direct data and you don't need to
fancify it then be concise and to the
point exactly what you're trying uh
achieve through that
resume put that like you have done a lot
of courses but again whatever is
relevant to that particular job try to
put that and you can put extra maybe but
U if your resume is becoming a bit
longer just try to keep it concise and
to the point try to use action verbs uh
start each bullet point with a strong
action verb such as developed managed
LED implemented and all of that so um
try to write from an employer's point of
view um because uh if suppose you were
an employer and you were looking at the
resume so how would it look like and
what you are looking for or you tried it
in that form that increases your chances
um and um try to highlight relevant
skills and experiences of qu ify your
achievements showcase your education
certifications courses certifications
and courses play a big role sometimes
because a lot of people just graduate in
um apply but how can you differentiate
yourself as having courses and
certificates that shows that you're
enthusiastic and if you're coming from a
different background and if you want to
apply for that particular job and if
you're having a certification that means
you're showing an inclination towards
that particular role so it is a good uh
thing that if you're applying courses
and certification then you're putting it
in your resume try to use a tools for
initial screening um and before that you
can also try to have a mentor who can go
through your resume you can uh have like
AI tools as well uh and you can have
someone uh ge your resume is it looking
good bad and uh what problems they are
facing on that um then how would you
showcase your skills in a smart way is
try to uh show the transferable skill if
you're coming from a non Tech background
or you're not coming from a data analyst
background try to highlight those
transferable skills more than um any
other skill uh try to incorporate a
skills section use action oriented
language and um show continuous learning
and certifications if you are having
some Gap or if uh you want to show that
you are uh going towards that uh
particular direction
so um second I lost up track okay so
yeah this one is that we were talking
about your how to show your skills if
possible try to create a resum website
of yourself portfolio and uh data R
story there are so many things that
that's there link it try not to have a
login or request option on that keep it
public uh and uh so that they can just
click on it and get through and um uh
that can really be helpful U then try to
use some resume
passing tools like these tools will help
you to extract and um standardize your
data from your resume
and these can ensure that your resume is
formatted correctly and includes all the
relevant information so it it basically
makes easier for um the the recruiters
to access your
skills um so how can you identify the
transferable skills is that uh these are
few skills that's needed for an
analytics background which is uh you
need to have the analytical skills
research project management attention to
detail so all of these things if you're
including it's adding all the plus
points to your um analytical role
and how you can highlight them uh is
something that you need to uh discuss it
with your peers or your uh even research
we can have a Course Mentor obviously so
uh these are few things that that if you
are trying to get it included in the
resume and uh some real world projects
and case studies that I have included is
I think these are something which is um
not so common but you can try if you are
having these real world projects and
case studies out of your job if you're
already having a job then try to include
those projected case studies uh from
uh your job and you can see that few
projects are like sentimental analysis
it's um quite in a trend these days then
Smart City traffic management analytics
we are seeing that uh there are cities
which are going AI City nowadays so
before that you need to have a lot of
things in place if you want to call a
city AI City your imagination goes like
everything is perfect over there in AI
City
so we need to solve few things and their
analyticals play a big role and a lot of
problems are still not solved over there
so it's good if you try to spend some
time on how you can make those projects
so these projects can be a big win for
you guys if you really have solved some
real time problems not just copy pasted
from internet so how you can get part
from a big crowd is that you need to
solve some problems by yourself real
time problems um and not just copy paste
from internet okay then um before uh
moving on to things like how you can um
like put some things on your resume that
can beat the application tracking
systems um I would like to say that if
you have any questions regarding the uh
job boot camp or uh like how you can
form a road map towards uh becoming a
data analyst and uh if you want to talk
to me mentors like me and um how you can
get more guidance on all of these things
because sometimes people from industry
can give you real time um uh in insights
on how you can make or make your resume
better so for that we have created a
form um like Gooding ninja is providing
a form to us and you can fill th those
forms and they can reach out to you or
you can put some questions out there
where uh uh they will reach out to you
if uh they want to uh like address those
questions so I would like to ask coding
ners team to share that form with you
guys this can be helpful to you guys to
get some kind of mentoring um and we
will also get to know what kind of
questions are there out there for you
guys to address it in our next uh
section as well so um coding ninja
stream if you could share that form with
the
audience in the
chat
um okay it is already shared uh by uh
the coding ninjas team take one or two
minutes to fulfill this form here you
can also get more information on how you
can apply to particular job sometimes uh
you need help on what to write in the
cover letter you have a lot of things
but uh you can't really get into or that
particular uh job so coding njas have a
lot of team from different companies and
they have accumulated their own data on
how application processes can work and
they provide you some
expertise um so you can fill those forms
and uh they can help you in the guidance
and give you comprehensive training
offers and things like that so take one
two minutes and then we will continue
with
this so the uh
form link is shared
again so take your time and fill that
form meanwhile I will just continue with
the PPT and uh see if you could connect
it's a good opportunity to connect with
the mentors and uh many other uh
resources available with uh coding
ninjas and Noy so try to fill that form
and see if you can reach out to them all
right so how you can um beat the uh
application tracking system first of all
people who don't know application
tracking system nowadays A lot of people
are using application tracking system to
filter out a lot of resumes since a lot
of resumes are coming which might not be
worthy for the job uh so they have built
a tracking system it's a software which
would check for basic things like uh it
it checks for relevant information such
as your contact details work experiences
education and skills keyword matching
and some um basically it's trying to um
check if you are relevant to that job uh
sometimes people might apply
to data analytics job but give a resume
of a chef so that's completely
irrelevant and it's not a point of
recruiter should not go through all of
those things so it's saving time so
that's ATS and how you can avoid basic
things that ATS is doing that you can uh
put it in your resume and avoid uh
getting rejected at the ATS level right
so uh check out if there are some
abbreviations related to the job try to
expand them and try
to put it into parenthesis the full form
of the ab
then you should try to Avid some keyword
stuffing okay you know that these
keywords are important but don't overdo
it because um it's definitely important
to in include the keywords but if you're
sort of um like overloading it and
stuffing it it looks unnatural and ATS
can also flag that as well like what if
somebody is just trying to copy paste
the entire job description in the resume
and sending it it doesn't mean that s
will pass that ATS will simply reject
that also so uh you need to be take care
you need to be taking care of that as
well try to take care of the spellings
in the grammars because um if you're
applying for artificial intelligence job
and intelligent spelling is wrong or
artificial spelling is wrong you might
lose that job because of just the
spelling and grammar so uh take care of
that keep checking your resume again and
again uh and try to use Simple layout
avoid complex formatting and if there's
missing contact information how are the
people going to contact you so um there
are few things that I have covered on
how to make your resume worth getting
selected for
interview or right uh and once you are
selected you need to have some story as
well to your resume so make sure if you
have some story to your resume U then
that would increase your chances of like
okay you have some cognitive thinking
that you can make your resume in a a
data driven style or you already know
how to put things together or cohesive
manner right so it's it can be depicted
through your resume and uh how you can
do that is you can have a story to tell
through your resume that you can tell
when you are asked about me section or
uh run through your resume so you can um
tell it in a story form uh try to put it
in a visual form if possible and share
the link in the resume or you can
present it while interview and always
try to focus on impact uh so when you're
giving your basic first round uh to what
exactly you bringing to the table you
can put these things and have more
confidence when you are asked about
about me or run through your resume
these things are something which is uh
people know but people uh try to
hesitate or they get nervous at these
point and maybe mess up also and they
might also think that okay if the uh
recruiter is already having my resume
then why should I run through it uh this
is something that you can put forward
and you can make yourself stand out
right so instead of just going through
basic a thing of education and this and
that you're just crafting a story out of
that so you can have a data driven story
and this is one example that I'm trying
to project here where you can have the
introduction how you did the data
collection analysis results
implementation what was the impact and
concluded with you should have a
conclusion to the story so you can
include all of these things uh uh
included in your resume and in your
first uh question that you put in as in
like explain about your job or the basic
questions that you
get um sorry that's um that's coming
from my mobile so um this is one uh
example coming from uh one of the
resumes that I Tred to make where uh you
can say that hey I'm a data analytics
specialist with five years of experience
you're basically putting your
professional summary then you're
summarizing your work experience what
projects what skills you applied and
what was the impact of it uh if you try
to put those things in your resume in
this way and you try to put that and in
the top most section the people if they
are trying to scan your resume the first
lines they would scan and they would see
okay there's some story to it and they
would understand okay these skills are
required for this project and
uh so that's how they they would create
a cohesive thing and this would slightly
make your resum better and Polished one
um few resum mistakes that can sabotage
your chances like U having spelling
grammar I think this one I can skip
um so few things that you need to uh
take care when you are trying to to
prepare for Microsoft interviews is
resarch the company stay updated with
the latest news uh because there might
be questions and some problems might
come into uh your plate when uh
interview is going on because they
really have that problem and it's coming
from the recent uh things like if you
would say uh Microsoft have announced
the maybe co-pilot going really big or
even Google is trying to achieve uh
something through b but there are some
problems that they are facing you can be
someone who's solving that right or you
have some Vision to solve that problem
so that's how the research in the
company uh takes comes into the picture
and you can put that you try to include
that when you're trying to show your
real time projects or research or
anything of that so try to include that
when interviewer ask you question so um
one very important thing is this
research a job as well if you are
applying for a job that means you're
trying to solve a problem at a company
so I generally feel that if there is a a
job opening then they're definitely
trying to solve a problem so what
problem are they trying to solve this or
you can try to understand and what
Solutions are you offering that you can
offer through this then you should need
to understand the interview process
sometimes so it is available in the
market sometimes you can ask your HR you
can ask the interviewer themselves like
what would be the process what are the
rounds and things like that the it can
be same as what they telling or they can
it can be something more uh depending on
how they are assessing you try to do
practice uh um some virtual interviews
with your mentors peers or use some
tools um courses all of those things so
it becomes necessary when you're not
doing it for the first time in the first
time you might make some glitches that
you can avoid when you do some practices
and prepare for technical interviews
there are lot of experiences shared
about technical interviews so prepare
for those and if you're applying for a
technical role make sure you know a lot
of things because they can ask you any
problem and if you are very um open and
very uh true to what exactly
uh you know is what they are looking for
don't try to Bluff that you know these
things and then uh in the interview they
can basically judge you out that you
don't know all of these things because
think from the perspective that they
have gone through a lot of resumes and
also they can H because they are sitting
at a very expertise level so they can
understand if you're trying to fake it
so I would say don't try to fake it and
don't try to lie especially at these
companies it may not work for you and
you might not even get a feedback that
hey you are lying or you faking it out
so straight out say no further processes
so try to get the expertise and then
only attend these interviews there will
be behavioral questions for that you can
uh apply star framework which is a
situation task action and result uh this
is very common framework it's in
Friendly these days and also good way to
answer behavioral questions like what
was the situation if there was a
conflict between your team member how
did you solve it and what actions did
you take um you reached out to your
manager you solved it by yourself you
reached out to that person you KN it
down and then it resolved came to a
common Point all of these things you can
tell and result what was it like okay
you could work in Harmony and you treeve
something through that within 10 days 5
days whatever so uh try to put numbers
as well over here in the results back
what was it so those things can be of
brownie points on uh if there are some
problems that's already existing in the
team every team would have some of the
other problem and your behavioral
questions would bring maybe new flavor
to the team or or you might even blend
in the team they looking for so this is
completely luck based or even if you ask
few questions to the uh recruiter that
how is the team what you expecting from
me as a team member then also you can
get to know exactly what they are
looking for uh you as a team member then
um know your
competencies um and what exactly is
required in the job um it's the same as
uh previous one that we have covered
that is uh technical interviews if you
have uh then how you're going to cover
that the same way you you should know
your competencies or if you can have
some more competencies apart from
technical like you have adaptability you
have collaboration or you solve some
customer problems stakeholders problems
some problems that your manager were
facing they were not able to solve but
you solved it um eat the frog is some
term that they use so those things if
you have done in your job or in your
universities then you can um put it over
here be prepared to demonstrate these
competencies through your past
experiences um try to pull the
interviewers that they can see these
competencies as well but don't overdo
don't waste their time if you're not
looking for it sometimes they might be
so it depends on how you're trying to
gauge their body language as well and
don't try to bore them so uh make sure
that you're trying to put some
interesting facts that can be
interesting to them so if there might be
few things that it might be not plugging
them or at that time but you bring that
up as your strength then that would be
browny point to you that okay um these
things that they can add to the team and
it is a long du thing or a problem which
is lying out there but it's not getting
solved but you can solve so that can
increase your chance ances of getting
selected um and um like if you are not
from uh the same city you can request
for the
accommodations uh if needed if you're
having little problem then you can try
to request for the accomodation and if
you're a right candidate and uh all that
all that thing you're bringing to the
table uh then they would be lenient to
give you the accommodation so it's good
to ask if you want so that uh you see um
you can get what you want to prepare
good for your
interview uh it it doesn't mean that
you're asking them for accommodations in
a hotel or anything of that sort but
something like uh um if I'm trying to
say that you're a woman and you want
some online interview process or
something of that sort maybe for some
reason then you can try to say that hey
uh I'm on so and so break and I would
want an online interview so those things
if possible you can ask basic things uh
some small things that can make your
interview process easy don't uh Forst
them for those accommodations but if
needed only ask them few interview
rounds that would appear to you guys are
these and these are few that I have
observed so far and heard stories and
have gone through few of them so these
interview rounds are some things which
are very common but there can be few
more um but I cannot think of anything
that might be missing over here but in
case you guys think there's something
missing do let us know that you have
experienced some interview round apart
from these uh at our fangs and Ms and
all of those and we have not included
let me know in chat uh so these are few
interview rounds on initial screening
would be done um there would be video
call phone call with an HR Rec or the
initial screen around and uh here they
would assess your background experience
interest in the role they might discuss
your resume and relevant projects your
expectations from the job all of those
things and notice period all of those
things might be asked here then there's
something called cognitive assessments
which are the test um which checks your
um mental functions and ability uh for
crucial tasks that might be there with
them it involves basically the um
analytical round the reasoning round the
problem solving and uh your
comprehension and all of that so it
might be needed for few jobs uh it might
not be needed as well so this is sort of
an optional round uh but generally in
analytical role you need some kind of
skills uh that should be projected here
as an analytical skill so it includes it
can include aptitude test also aptitude
test quantitative test all of those
things come in these rounds and there's
technical interview rounds which is
highly related to the job they might ask
you what things you have done they might
ask you about the tools be prepared you
can uh be asked many depth questions
here in technical interview rounds and
how you approach the problems uh for
those particular technical problems uh
so it can again vary from beginner level
to advanced level as well so depending
on what kind of job and what interviewer
is looking for in the candidate they can
um put these um question questions out
there so you can expect questions like
our difference between power and tblo
explain Dax or how did you uh do some
kind of
analysis when such problem existed so
this can also lead to scenario based
questions where they would put you into
a scenario and they would say that how
are you going to address this scenario
it shows your time management skill your
your um approach to a problem your
ability to solve a problem and what
tools you know how you can you know any
Frameworks and all of those things come
in uh picture over here so some examples
like you have uh some sales metrics data
now create a dashboard showing monthly
revenue or you want to show this data to
the stakeholder how are you going to
create the report sometimes you might
have to create reports
um like about 10 to 15 in a month as
well uh for different stakeholders or
you might have to create a new one or
something of that sort so how you going
to um address those issues at your job
that will be assessed over here then um
there'll be something like based on how
you're solving your Solutions and
everything they would ask questions like
how can you handle data from multiple
sources maybe you have solved the
problem entirely what they were looking
for or they might be thinking that okay
you have a good approach but there are
few more things that they need to add so
they would add here that okay you want
to handle data from multiple sources and
how you can do that all of those things
can be asked over here so be prepared
when you are uh going for this then uh
something similar would be Hands-On
assessment where companies might provide
you some links and some home uh like
they would ask you to solve it in 24
hours or uh they would give you some
time period and put a Hands-On
assessment and uh you need to solve that
and give it to them um on a proper tool
and everything so here again it can be
creation of the reports or solving some
SQL
queries excuse me so those things can
come over here again behavioral
questions are something that I have
covered already uh here something would
be like how would you handle tight
deadlines and are you more someone who
works independently or you need some
handholding uh sometimes they need
collaborative so they want people to get
hand holded sometimes they want people
to be independent it depends on teams
managers so uh it's on you also you can
ask ask what kind of things they are
expecting from you then managerial and
Team interview is very important round
and you will definitely have this round
and uh one uh optional round can be
domain specific questions like if you're
applying for a a finance uh data
analysis or you're trying to apply for a
data applied sciences analytics role
then um all of those things will have a
particular domain specific questions uh
those you need to be prepared for okay
in the managerial round you would meet
the hiring manager uh it is for sure
that you would meet hiring manager in
once in all your interview rounds and uh
in this generally what is checked is do
you uh fit in the team uh or not mostly
and they would also see your experience
what's your motivation and all of those
things so
with this I think we have covered almost
every round of the interviews and we
have four minutes left in this I would
try to address as many questions and
possible and um um I would also seek
some questions if there's something for
coding njas so moving on to our Q&A
session um few questions that I'm
getting from the chat as well um Sophia
I don't know what previous slide you
were looking at so I'm excluding that a
b will CH gbt shorted resume can be
caught or reject by
ATS uh even if it is getting caught I
think there's no harm if it is uh like
chat GPT one why not but again I think
we have seen one post recently where
somebody have just copy pasted from chat
GP where they have not included the
experience but they have included
something that chat gbt told here you
can include the experience right so you
need to customize obviously right you're
applying for such big opportunity try to
put in efforts is what I can say so
there's no harm in using charb and AI
tools but make sure you're using it with
some intelligence in some
wisdom um okay and nagas is telling
learn statistics before practice the
exploratory data analysis um yes basic
one would be
needed
um I'm not able to find the Q&A session
where oh yeah yeah
okay okay the recording would be shared
to us after the session uh it will be
available on the portal so you can reach
out from there does our resume have to
go through ATS yes every resume even if
the internal candidates are applying um
through the portal that goes through ATS
and our resum also get rejected if it's
not following the ATS things
so yes ATS uh
will come into the
picture I heard that there few things
for voice breaking unble to hear I hope
it was good and able to capture the
information I did not read that um in
the middle in my session but it was only
in the beginning I guess not later so
few more questions are there but mostly
I feel is related
to uh job boot Camp so I will hand it
over to coding ninja team there's one
last question how to tackle case study
questions case study questions again you
need to um show what you have really
done don't fake out and uh try to show
what problem you have done what problem
you have solved what was the problem
statement what tools you have used so uh
and always have an impact um statement
like what was the impact what was your
time management skill over there
highlight your skills over here which
are your strengths and also if you try
to show some of your weaknesses that you
have overcome through those case studies
and um if you got to know something you
have improved then that also mentioned
over here so I hope that answers your
question um the rest questions are some
something related to coding ninja so I
will hand it over to them um coding
ninja team you could take it over for
further
questions hey hi thank you so much for
such an insightful session and with that
I can see a lot of questions around K
Ninja's job boot camp and for for that
we have senior program expert from our
team and he will take over and will
explain how this uh you know coding
ninas job boot camp in data analytics
can be ideal Road for you so just 5 to
10 minutes whoever wants to understand
about this know more about this they can
stay and uh uh can keep dropping their
questions in chat box because we will be
catering to them uh by the end of the uh
you
know 5 10 minutes within more five more
minutes I guess so yeah K now over to
you yeah thank you thank you so much so
I would like to thank the mentor for
such an insightful session and hi
everyone so my name is Karan and I am
the senior program expert from job boot
