ever wondered how companies know what
you think about them well they can't
read mins but they can read your tweets
emails reviews and pretty much
everything else you write online and
this is where sentiment analysis comes
in sentiment analysis involves analyzing
large volumes of text to determine the
sentiment expressed to see if it's
positive or negative or somewhere in
between like neutral and it's intended
to help companies better understand
their customers to deliver stronger
customer experiences and improve their
brand
reputation but it's not without its
pitfalls okay so let's get into this and
sentiment analysis is built on top of
something called
NLP natural language processing to train
software to analyze and interpret text
in a way that mimics human understanding
and there are a couple of main
approaches to this there's rule based
and then there's machine learning based
and then sometimes you'll see a hybrid
of the two and let's start with rule
based so what about the rule based
approach to sentiment analysis well in
this approach software is trained to
classify certain keywords in a block of
text based on groups of words or what
are
called
lexicons and lexicons are groupings of
words that describe the author's intent
so for example let's consider some some
lexicons so
affordable would be one uh wellmade
would be another one uh perhaps we might
consider fast as another lexicon what do
they all have in common well they would
all be in the positive lexicon so we can
give this a big happy smiley face but
then we could say things like expensive
or we could say poorly made or we could
say slow and yes clearly these would all
be
considered the sad face these would be
considered negative
lexicons now the software scans the text
for these keywords and then calculates a
sentiment score based on the frequency
and the context of these words so if we
look at this review here that says these
shoes are affordable well and shipping
was fast well that scores highly in the
positive lexicon and can be considered
an overall positive
sentiment boy this is easy there is no
way the nuances of human language will
ever get in the way of us assigning
sentiment scores right well that that is
a fine example of sarcasm and sarcasm
can really trip up sentiment analysis
systems it can be real problem
especially for the rule-based approach
to sentiment analysis so consider this
review oh wonderful a pair of shoes so
wellmade they lasted me one full week a
rule-based system might pick up on
wonderful and wellmade as being in the
positive lexicon category and then
misclassify the overall sentiment as
positive missing the sarcastic tone
entirely but sarcasm that's just one
example another one is
negation now negation can really trip
these things up as well if we take the
sentence I wouldn't say the shoes were
inexpensive uh well the word inexpensive
that might typically signal a positive
sentiment in a alexicon but here it's
used in a negated form to imply the
shoes are actually a little bit
expensive so without understanding the
context a rules based system might
misinterpret the sentiment and then
there's
also idiomatic language which can trip
things up as well so if we think about
phrases like break a leg or it's a piece
of cake uh they don't literally mean
what the words suggest so if somebody
writes at this price the shoes are a
steel a rule based system might
incorrectly assume theft based
negativity instead of understanding that
it means the shoes were a great
bargain okay so what about the other
type of approach and that is
machine learning the machine learning
approach to sentiment analysis now that
helps tackle some of these issues by
training algorithms on large data sets
to recognize patterns including the
complexities of human language and
developers use sentiment analysis
algorithms to teach software how to
identify emotion in text simply the same
way that humans do now that's performed
typically using classification
algorithms and let's take a look at a
couple of classif application algorithms
now so we'll start with the first one
which is called
linear regression and linear regression
is a pretty common classification
algorithm that in this case predicts a
sentiment score based on various
features in the text so for example to
determine the sentiment of product
reviews it considers the frequency of
positive and negative words but also the
review length and specific emotive
phrases uh another one we can use
is naive base and this uses base theorem
to classify text by calculating the
probability of a sentiment based on word
occurrences so for instance if we have a
data set of restaurant reviews already
labeled as positive or negative then
this algorithm calculates the likelihood
that a new review is positive or
negative based on the words it contains
and another one is svm that is support
Vector machines and there are fast and
effective classification algorithm used
to solve two group classification
problems so to classify customer reviews
as positive or negative spvm identifies
the optimal boundary that separates the
two groups and it does that by analyzing
features like word frequencies and
phrases ensuring the maximum margin
between the positive and the negative
reviews now together these approaches
can help weed out the sarcasm negation
and idiomatic language expressed in
human generated
all right now depending on their needs
organizations can use various types of
sentiment analysis to get a clearer
picture of customer sentiments and we're
going to look at a few types and they
all rely on the software's ability to
gauge something that is known as
polarity now polarity is the the the
overall feeling conveyed by a piece of
text and it can be generally described
on a scale so we have positive at one
end
neutral in the
middle and negative at the other end and
then some models take it even further
categorizing text into subcategories
like extremely positive and
extremely negative so we have a scale
here that we can rank things on all
right so let's consider a few of these
and we're going to start with
fine grain
so this is a type of sentiment analysis
uh also known as graded and sentiment
analysis groups text into different
emotions here and the level of emotion
being expressed so polarity here
actually is often expressed as a
numerical rating on a scale of 0 to 100
where Zer is neutral and then 100
represents the most extreme sentiment
there's also also aspect based sentiment
analysis so a
BSA and Narrows the focus to specific
aspects of a product or of a service or
of a customer experience so for example
like a budget travel app might use Absa
to analyze user feedback specifically
about its new customer chatbot this
helps businesses understand precisely
what customers like or dislike about
particular features allowing them to
address those specific issues and
there's
also
emotional detection as a different type
of sentiment analysis and this seeks to
understand the psychological state of
the individual behind a body of text
including their frame of mind when they
were writing it and their intentions
it's more complex than either fine grain
or Absa and it's typically used to gain
a deeper understanding of a person's
motivation or their emotional state so
for example a support ticket saying
something like I'm extremely frustrated
by the repeated issues I mean that
reveals not just negative sentiment but
it also reveals Le specific emotion of
frustration so rather than using
polarities like positive negative or
neutral emotional detection can identify
specific emotions in a body of text the
core idea here is that by building an
understanding of sentiment as it relates
to a customer's overall experience
specific features and underlying emotion
an organization will be empowered to
make meaningful changes so for example
to learn which issues to escalate in a
support Forum or to conduct market
research on competitive to spot Trends
and identify New Opportunities
ultimately sentiment analysis is a tool
to extract meaningful analysis to guide
business decisions when done right
sentiment analysis can walk the line of
human Nuance turning even the trickiest
reviews yeah even the most sarcastic
ones into clear
insights if you have any questions
please drop us a line below and if you
want to see more videos like this in the
future please like And subscribe thanks
for watching
