what is going on guys welcome to this
video in today's episode we're going to
talk about natural language processing
and we're going to build a script that
analyzes the sentiment of a text so
we're going to feed a text into our
script and the spirit is then going to
tell us hey this is a slightly positive
text is a slightly negative text this is
a pretty neutral text this is a very
negative text or this is a very positive
text so we're going to use natural
language processing techniques but we're
also going to keep it a very high level
so we're not going to get in depth into
what is happening behind the scenes
we're going to just use some libraries
and make it happen pretty quickly in
Python so this is what we're going to do
in this video so let us get into the
code alright so as always we're going to
start by installing some libraries so
we're going to say activate main which
is my kana environment if you don't have
a condo environment just use pip
directly but otherwise activate it and
type pip install and we're going to
install three libraries one because it's
the basis for the other two and two
because we're actually going to use them
and the basis is called NLT Kay which
stands for I think natural language
toolkit and it's the essential basic
fundamental library for natural language
processing in Python and it's also what
the other two libraries are using or
build on so in addition to that we're
going to install our text block which is
what we're actually going to use for the
sentiment analysis as you can see it's
using an LT King and also we're going to
say pip install newspaper 3k which is
essentially the library that we're going
to use to get newspaper articles into
our script for sentiment analysis so
these are the three libraries that we're
going to use or that we're going to
install two of them were going to use
and for the inputs we're going to save
from text blob import text block with a
capital T capital B and then we're going
to save from newspaper import article so
these are the two things that we're
going to need and then we can start
analyzing some articles so the next step
is to now go ahead and get the article
into the script in order to perform a
sentiment analysis on to it so for this
we're going to specify the URL of the
article and for
I thought I'm going to look up some
articles here on Wikipedia because
Wikipedia should be pretty neutral when
it talks about topics like for example
mathematics which I'm going to look for
right now this should have a pretty
neutral score and in the end we're going
to get a score from -1 to 1 where -1 is
the most negative thing there is like a
hateful angry article and/or text and 1
is the most positive thing a happy and
positive article and 0 is like
completely neutral so on Wikipedia we
should get probably more neutral
examples of texts here and on CNBC when
we get some news off the Dow Jones
rising 100 points this should be a
pretty positive text a pretty positive
sentiment whereas when we have news
about a recession will be much worse
than 2007 to 2009 this should be a
pretty negative article and we're going
to check if this is what our program
outputs in the end so we're going to
start by saying URL equals mathematics
the mathematics article in Wikipedia and
then we're going to transform and
transform it into an article object of
the newspaper library so we're going to
say article equals article URL and this
is essentially the object that we're
going to use to get the article into the
script so we're going to say article dot
download to get it into the script
article dot parse to make it you know
readable or basically to get all the
HTML out of it I think and then we're
going to say article dot NLP which is
essentially preparing it for natural
language processing and now what we're
going to do is we're going to say text
equals we want to get the text of the
article and for this we can either go
for the full text so we're going and we
can say article dot text which will
essentially give us the whole text
without the HTML text and all of that so
it will essentially give us every piece
of text that is contained on that
website I think or most of it so the
full article about mathematics as you
can see I don't know if this is the full
one but it's
a lot more information that you get then
if you say some early for example
because the summary is basically just
focusing on the main content of this
article and as you can see if we go for
the full text we see a lot of stuff that
it's not really related to the text
something like see also notes references
and so on
which are not really important for the
sentiment analysis because they're
contained in every Wikipedia post so the
summary we can take a look at it is a
little bit more focusing on what's
actually written in the article the main
information here so we're going to pick
the summary as the sentiment analysis
data set so to say and what we're going
to do for that is we're going to create
an a block object so we're going to say
blob equals text blob text block capital
T capital B of the text so we're going
to pass the string here we're not
passing the article object the article
object is just for getting the text just
getting the clean summary of the text
into the script and now we're going to
get this text and create a text blob
object from it and then we're going to
say sentiment equals blob down sentiment
dot polarity this is the one we're going
to look at it's going to give us a score
from minus 1 to 1 we're again minus 1 is
very negative 1 is very positive and we
can just go ahead and print the
sentiment of this particular mathematics
article of Wikipedia and in this case
it's a little bit positive as you can
see 0.13 is more to the 1 than to the
minus 1
so closer to the 1 basically and I think
this is probably because we're talking a
lot about discovery and success in the
past and what mathematicians found out
and it's a little bit more to the
positive side then to the negative side
because mathematics is a pretty neutral
topic but still it yields a lot of
process and a progress and achievement
so probably this is the reason why this
is a more positive text now let's go
ahead and pick the Dow Rises more than a
hundred points and let's see if this is
more positive than the
point three one one three sorry I think
it should definitely be positive well at
least more positive oh it's negative why
is it Oh
as you can see probably it's negative
because of stuff like the S&P 500 is
down or okay gains I don't know why
exactly probably because we have an
almost equal amount of negative and
positive statements in here probably
because we're talking a lot about
pandemics and and problems and I don't
know what but as you can see it's a
slightly negative argument but as you
can see it is almost neutral so I was
expecting that to be more positive than
negative here to be honest but as you
can see this is not prepared or at least
not I'm not just picking stuff to show
you that what I prepared works but I'm
actually working on some real articles
here so this one should be pretty
negative because it's all about
recession and worse and bad and it's
positive what the is happening here
let's check why this is the case we have
a pretty neutral stuff here but actually
we're having some words like hitting the
US economy harder than a crisis
recession so I really don't know why
this is so positive here maybe I have to
spectrum the other way around but let's
check for another article here
let's talk CNBC I don't know losses or
something European markets pair losses
and focus on pandemic recovery so this
should be negative or at least more
negative than positive but let's see
what the output says again it's a little
bit more negative a little bit more
positive sorry but most of them are pre
neutral so let go let's go for some
murder news to see if we have some there
you go
shooting murder investigation and I so
this should definitely be a negative
articles let's see if this works better
than the rest
let's just replace the link here and see
what happens all right this one is
obviously negative because we have
traumatic and victim and wounds and I
don't know what dramatic again so and
also died and something like that so as
you can see it's not a hundred percent
reliable but if a post is extremely
negative in one direction it's probably
going to recognize it also if you have a
very very positive text it's going to
recognize it if it's more like a gray
zone it's probably not going to
recognize things by just looking at the
summary maybe if you go for the
headlines specifically it's going to
give you better results because the
article about the recession was probably
talking a lot about hope and about
stocks and money which is probably
associated more with positive values
whereas also the one that talked about
gains in the markets talked about
pandemics and problems and diseases and
all of that so it's probably the reason
why we get some mixed scores or some
neutral scores there but this is
essentially how you analyze articles
from the web and now we're going to take
a look at how to analyze our own text
all right in order to analyze our own
text the only thing that we need to do
is we need to replace all of this year
all the article stuff here with some
text that we scan in from files or we
can actually write the text in Python
itself but let's just create a new file
here let's say file equals my text dot
txt and we're going to write a review
for a product here I loved this product
it was great I will definitely buy more
of it excellent experience so this is a
very very positive post a very positive
review so let's see if our bluff object
is going to recognize that so we're
going to say with F with open sorry with
open my text dot txt in reading mode SF
we're going to say text equals F
dot REIT and the rest is the same so
let's see if it works this should
definitely work with a very high score
as you can see we got a score off 0.7
which is extremely high because it's
extremely positive of course now let's
try the other way around and say
something like I hate this thing it's
destroyed destroyed my life I would
never buy it again
worst experience yet this is a bad
product so if you have something very
obvious it's going to recognize it so
let's try again and as you can see we
get a almost negative 1 which is
negative zero point 9 3 which is almost
negative 1 so if it's that obvious it's
going to give you the right answer if
it's a mixed article you see that
there's some more gray area there and
it's not as obvious for the natural
language processing kit used by text
blob here but we can also try to you
know write a somewhat negative text that
is still quite neutral to see what the
result would be for example yesterday I
went biking for let's go for hiking and
on the way up I heard my knees it was or
it was not good which is probably a
little bit confusing because good is
rated as a good word as a positive word
it was not good we did not have a lot of
fun which is again misleading now I have
some wounds and I am bleeding I am also
a little bit sad
for you and we can say but all in all it
was a decent experience pretty confusing
texture but I think it will probably
even be rated more positive than
negative
oh no I'm again wrong it's negative
probably because I used words like sad
bleeding wounds and maybe it's even
capable of associating the knot with the
good so probably this is why it's a
little bit more than a negative side
because 0.13 on the negative side is you
know not that neutral anymore it's
clearly negative here but if I replace
decent with a great experience probably
it's going to be less negative here at
least I think so yeah now it's even more
positive not not only even more positive
but it's actually positive more positive
than neutral so one word can change a
lot here as you can see this library's
just for a little bit for playing around
a little but if you want to make a solid
sentiment analysis you're probably going
to have some more sophisticated
algorithms in the back so we're going to
focus more on the headlines and more on
specific word combinations you're not
just going to feed in the text into text
blop and expect it to be a very accurate
representation of the sentiment here
however if you're going to get I don't
know if you're going to scan a thousand
Amazon reviews on a product and when I
get the average is it more positive or
more negative it's probably going to
work because most Amazon reviews are
quite clear they're telling you if it's
a good product it's a bad product and
something in between
combined with the stars you're probably
going to get a good feeling of how
people think about the product so this
is something you could use this for also
you could perform some Twitter analysis
with it and you can base your stock
predictions on it if you put a little
bit more effort in building this tool
you can definitely use it for some
interesting stuff so that's it for
today's video I hope you learned
something and I hope you enjoyed it if
that was the case hit the like button
and subscribe to his channel too so
or it also feel free to ask questions
and give feedback in the comments
section down below tell me if you want
to see more videos on natural language
processing or tell me what kind of
videos that you want to see in the
future maybe I can do something about
them and yeah that's basically it so see
you in the next video thanks for
watching and bye
[Music]
you
