what if I told you that you can
automatically label your images for YOLO
object detection let me show you how you
can do it with auto
distill if you're new to my channel I
teach Robotics and AI so subscribe to
learn more so the idea behind Auto
distill is we have these big models
which are very heavy and not good for
real-time use such as grounding dyo and
Sam and we want to convert it to smaller
faster model so we can deploy it such as
YOLO V8 and other YOLO variations now to
get started go ahead and install auto
distill by running the commands here pip
install the auto distill the grounded
Sam and the YOLO V8s roof flow and
supervision now to run auto distill we
need to download and prepare our images
so there's two ways to go about this the
first way is you could go ahead and
download the data set with the images
directly from roof flow and the second
option is you could get raw video and
then split the video into the images for
training so you can see here that you
could come to roboo here if you go to
the model you could select the model
that you want and then you could run
these commands here that will let you
download those images and if you're
working with a raw video you could go
ahead and run these commands here now
that you have your video downloaded go
ahead and run these commands to split
your video into images and by running a
few more lines of code we get to see the
output of the images that we extracted
as you can see over here so this is an
important part where we prepare our
prompt so we will have our text captions
that will map to our class names so for
example we can see here we have milk
bottle to bottle and blue cap to cap now
we're ready to start the auto labeling
process so you can see here we have some
setup we're going to use our grounded
Sam here and then once we do that we get
to display our images to see how it
performs so you run these code here and
it'll show the output of our annotations
so you can see that it extracted the
bottle as well as the cap pretty nicely
now we're finally ready to train our
YOLO go ahead and run these commands and
it'll start the training process now
after the training we could view our
results to see how well the training did
you can see here is our confusion Matrix
and then if you scroll down you can look
at the map to see how well it did in the
predictions and here you can see this is
some of the results for the prediction
that I did on the validation batch now
if you're ready to test this out on
unseen images go ahead and run the
inference using the best model okay so
if you found this video helpful give a
like And subscribe and I'll see you in
the next one
