hey there everyone welcome to
technoholic today we are diving into one
of the most underused but powerful
feature in Windows 11 today in this
video we will talk about wise typing and
if you are tired of typing long email or
document this video will explain you how
to dictate text efficiently and unlock
the potential of yse typing in Windows
11 so stick around for accable tips
hidden features and essential command
that will transform how you type so
without further Ado let's dive in and
there we go now we are in our computer
screen first thing first let's
understand how we can activate Vice
typing I would say it is super simple
all you need to do is you need to press
Windows key and H button Al together and
this will instantly bring up a wise
typing toolbar as you can see here and
this toolbar will work across all the
apps whether you are in word or a
browser or even in messenging app let me
quickly show you one such demo for
example if we talk about notepad notepad
is one of the most lean or minimalistic
application available in Windows and
here you will not see or find any fancy
feature so in such situation also you
can utilize a Windows wise typing all we
need to do here is is we need to just
simply click inside Microsoft Notepad
and now I'm going to hit windows in Ed
and now I can start dictating and then
it will able to recognize what I am
saying and there we go guys here you can
see as I am speaking the notepad is
writing and it really doesn't matter
which app we are using now in order to
stop dictation all we need to do is we
simply need to click on our screen like
this and then um you will see the typing
function stopped and if you again want
to continue writing let's repeat the
same step I'm going to click on this
button and this will again start
listening to what I am
saying now we can also click on here to
stop it and one more important thing
that I would like to tell you you will
require an act active internet
connection as Windows use cloud-based
speech
recognition and as I mentioned before
you can utilize this voice typing
function not only in notepad but also in
Microsoft Word and anywhere else the
only thing required is a text field or a
data
field now we just saw how we can type
using wise typing now let's make sure
your your wice typing is fully optimized
for workflow for that first of all what
we will do here is we will enable auto
punctuation this saves you the hazle of
manually saying period or every few
second so now let's see how we can
enable auto punctuation for that let's
again press windows and H and now here
we need to click on this setting gear
icon and then here you can see I
actually have turned it on from this
setting you can turn it off and on okay
now let me write here
something to turn this on just click on
setting gear on the toolbar and toggle
the auto punctuation
switch and there we go here we can see
um Auto punctuation tried to add the
full stop as well as question mark here
okay so it may happen in certain
scenario it may not work that perfectly
so I would say it totally depend on you
if you would like to utilize Auto
punctuation or not you can always toggle
it on and off if you toggle it off then
what we can do here is we can also say
certain command manually for example to
turn this on Comma just click on the
setting gear on the toolbar full stop
next line toggling the auto punctuation
switch full stop so in this way guys
also we can manually ask to add
punctuation now let's talk about how we
can improve accuracy of voice typing
first of all make sure that you are
using a good quality mic Windows 11 does
excellent job with its speech
recognization but the quality of your
mic can make a huge difference next here
you need to make sure that your correct
mic is selected for that let's again
jump into our computer screen and now
here I'm going to click on Windows and
then um let's click here on settings and
in settings uh what I'm going to do here
is I'm going to go to system and in
system let's search for sound so here we
can see the sound is there and from here
you need to select the correct mic so in
my case I think I already have selected
correct mic which is sh mb7 another
thing what we can do is avoid accessive
background noise for best result also
keep your speech language settings
aligned to your accent for that we need
to look for time and language which is
here and then here we need to click on
speech now from here you need to choose
appropriate language so here seems like
I already have installed only one VI
package let's say I am more comfortable
with English India so I can basically
add English India here
okay and then you can select that
particular language here okay but the
good thing here with Windows 11 is now
you're going to get this option which
says that recognize non-native accent
for this language so if you enable it
you will see that even non-native accent
will be recognized by this language
which will further improve in
identifying what we are saying now let's
take our voice typing experience a notch
with some wise command this is where the
wise typing became even more powerful
for example um let me actually open
Microsoft Word and then um here what I
can do is let me again start writing
here the quick brown fox jump over the
lazy dog select that delete that so you
see these keywords can help you to
select your word word delete it as well
now let's talk about wise typing in
Microsoft Word if you are using the 365
version then you can also utilize the
inbuilt typing function available in
Microsoft Word Excel and PowerPoint just
you need to Simply go to your home Tab
and on the rightmost side you will see
this dictate function just you need to
click on dictate and then you can start
speaking this works similarly to to the
builtin wise typing tool in Windows 11
and yes Auto Punctuation is also
available here too that one can enable
Again by going to settings and then here
you need to click on enable auto
punctuation after enabling Auto
punctuation now you will see that the
necessary comma full stop are being
added
automatically next line don't forget you
can also customize your dictation
further by adjusting the spoken language
and enabling the profant filter if you
are working on professional or school
projects sometime you may also run into
issues then in that case you do not need
to worry about it is usually an easy fix
if your voice typing is not working make
sure that you are selecting correct
microphone again you can check that by
going to settings in settings we have
got this privacy and security and then
you need to look for speech so make sure
that this option is turned off and now
you are ready to take full advantage of
wise typing in Windows 11 and that's all
guys from my side in this video I hope
that you find this video helpful and
informational if so then please don't
forget to subscribe to technoholic to
see for more productivity hacks and if
you have got any kind of questions or
doubt drop the comment with your
favorite VI typing tip thanks for
watching and I will see you soon with
the next one till then you take care and
bye-bye
