how to translate your existing videos
from any language into any language that
you want to hey guys this is cheyen and
today in this tutorial I'm going to
reveal a secret AI tool that can do all
the hability for you and help you in AI
dubbing of your videos from any language
and translate it to any language that
you want to the best part over here is
that the video that would be produced as
output would have perfect lip sync and
it would have the brand voice as well
that means if my voice was used in the
original video then in the translated
video it would be my voice that would be
used so leveraging this power you can
actually open up multilingual YouTube
channel just like Mr Beast or you can
sell this as a service in different
freelancing networks as well so all of
these ways you can make insane money now
did I tell you that the AI tool comes
for free as well so I know you are very
interested so please stick on with me
till the end of this little tutorial
because this is going to be a very short
and to the point crisp tutorial don't
skip any part of it and if you're new to
this channel do consider subscribing to
this channel to get updates just like
this without further Ado I know you are
super excited so let's
start so it's time to reveal the tool
the AI tool is called H and AI as you
can see I right within H and AI right
and H and AI has multiple capabilities
number one it helps you to create this
kind of instant avars of yourself which
can speak like you have gestures like
you and you can use them as your digital
clone now I have got you covered with a
complete H and AI tutorial as well if
you wish to take a look at that anytime
during this video or after watching this
video you can find it in the description
link as well so currently I'm limiting
myself to only the relevant thing that
is video translation so for that we'll
come over to this create video click on
that and as you can see it gives you two
options one is to create the AAR video
like the ones that I have told you and
then there's the video translation So
currently we are more interested on
video translation so let's go for that
and in here as you can see you can
upload a video that is in your local
drive or you can use a video URL that
means you can go over to YouTube as well
and you can import any video that you
wish to now let's go for upload a video
example and in here I have got you
covered with a sample video which is
short in length so let's go ahead and
actually do that so that I can show you
in real time how it happens and then
just click on create new translation
then you need to select the original
language so it's English and now I'm
going to convert it into a Hindi
language video right and then you can
have the choice of number of speaker say
it's a interview kind of thing then you
need to choose two speaker right so
that's up to you then there is the brand
voice now by default it's brand voice
that is the voice that was used right
then if you see over here it there's the
enable Dynamic duration what happens is
that when a English video is converted
into a Hindi or some other language
video the duration might shorten or
might elongate a bit right so it would
do that adjustment dynamically you give
it the permission right then in here if
you don't want a lip sync you can do
that as well but I would like a lip sync
then there is include captions and then
there is use the original video specs or
you can also translate the text in the
video if there's some text call out in
the video you can translate that as well
so that being said let's submit and
let's see how the output looks like and
as you can see see it is being created
over here now as you can see I use this
tool regularly right it has all these
aars now these are built-in aars also
you can create and use your own ofar as
you can see now this one is an example
of another person's video on YouTube
which I have translated into Hindi you
can see it over here as well so let's go
ahead and actually play this and see how
it sounds now I would say you keep an
eye on the lip sync because this is very
very amazing technology that they have
implemented now let's play this take a
look at the lip sync and all the stuff
right so let's
play so you can see that it's amazing
right it's it's like he's a native Hindi
speaker but he isn't believe me it's a
English video that has been translated
into Hindi and it does it perfectly
right so you can go ahead and download
this video you can share it one click
you can download the captions all of
that is pretty much possible now let's
wait for this our example to finish up
and as we speak as you can see it is
being created so just to use up the time
I'll show you some more features that it
has one of them is this Labs you can
come over to these labs and they have
got a feature where you can actually use
a URL to video as well as you can see
over here so what this basically does is
that if you have an e-commerce kind of
URL say your shop URL or your Amazon
product review you are doing right you
can just fit in the URL and it would
produce this kind of videos just look at
this ever wondered how life could be
with the Asus V book5 let me so this
avar has been created by the tool itself
and then all the background images and
videos they have been scraped from the
URL so that's quite amazing if I
actually go through this you would see
it has actually scraped everything and
it has got through the features
important features and the best part you
can edit any and every part of it so
that is a great way to promote your Ecom
products or if you are into Amazon
affiliate or something like that you can
use this tool as well so the
opportunities with haen is unlimited and
it's a great great tool to to start off
again if you want to start out hent for
free of cost don't forget to sign up
using the link below right and you are
going to get amazing amazing response
with this and look at this it has been
created right now before just uh playing
the output let's see what the input is
like hey guys I'm recording this little
video to demonstrate the AI video
translation feature of a tool called
haen AI so you can see over here this is
the kind of video that I had created
right so now let's go over to our output
this is our output so let's go inside of
it and let's
play so you can see this it's amazing
the lip syn the kind of quality that it
has in Translation is quite magnificent
now what I can do essentially is that I
can create couple of YouTube channels
one for the English and one for the
Hindi but I don't need to create videos
right I can just create a video in one
language and trans late the other so
that's a great way to actually enhance
your passive income list and then there
is another way to make money out of it
as well now if we go over to Fiverr and
if we search for something called AI
dubbing I'm not going for the normal
translation because there are people who
charges a lot but these are AI dubbing
right you can see people are saying it's
AI dubbing and they are charging
anywhere around, India rupees which is
$10 and this is for just one minute of
video translation right now if you are
doing a 10 minutes video translation a
day which means you can make new nearly
$100 a day out of it right and there are
people who are charging even more as you
can see over here so that's quite
amazing stuff to have so I really hope
that you guys have enjoyed this little
tutorial if you have please help me with
a like and let me know in the comment
section if you have got any questions
regarding any part of this tutorial also
let me know if you want to learn about
any new AI tool and I'll try to cover it
up in my next video with that being said
this is your good friend cheyen signing
off don't forget to subscribe to this
channel hit on the Bell notification
icon I will meet you on the next one
[Music]
