[Music]
hi I'm an automatic translation system
now my head used to be full to bursting
with vocabulary lists and grammar rules
and my progress was slow and all of
those rules and exceptions gave me a
headache
I couldn't translate new words and my
sentence structure wasn't always right
and this caused problems translated
messages were often misunderstood and
users became unsure about their
interactions with me
but now I use a neural network which
means I learn from lots of examples I
learned from novels and their
translations translated subtitles
multilingual websites and so on and I
don't like to brag but I can process
more text than anyone could read in an
entire lifetime
with this mass of information my neural
network can learn how to translate and
as with all computer systems the
information must first be converted into
number sequences also known as word
vectors
a word Vector places each word on
different axes in a multi-dimensional
space
words that are somehow related to each
other are closer together in that space
than words that are unrelated
I can easily work with a space of up to
a thousand Dimensions now try getting
your head around that all those numbers
represent different aspects of meaning
which in an abstract way allows me to
understand the meaning of words before I
start translating I study the whole
Source sentence because of all the
information I gathered about words I
know how they connect with each other
and this means that I make fewer and
fewer grammatical mistakes
sometimes I don't have enough
information about particular words in a
sentence to work out the correct meaning
when that happens I use the most
frequent translation which is useful but
by no means foolproof
but if you give me a sentence with more
context I usually manage to provide an
accurate translation
I also find it easier if two languages
are similar so I can do a better job of
translating from Italian into Dutch than
from say Chinese into English all the
information I process helps me to become
the best version of myself
and the better I become the more I can
help all of you to communicate with each
other as effectively as possible but to
become even better I need a lot more
information I know about 200 languages
so far but there are almost 7 000 in the
world and on top of that I'm not as good
as I'd like to be at translating
creative language for this and other
difficult tasks I prefer to work with
language professionals would you like to
know more then have a look at the
following website
[Music]
