all you need to learn machine learning
in 2024 is a laptop and a list of the
steps you need to take I'm a student
researcher working for an ex meta
professor and have had interviews with
Google Deep Mind Amazon and other cool
companies but it took me over 3 years to
get to this point so today I will share
how I would learn machine learning if I
could start over by revealing the six
key steps you need to take let's get
going in general all these steps don't
have to be strictly completed in any
particular order but I would not start
with the final and arguably most
important step that said what I do
highly recommend is to start with
learning the basics of python python is
the programming language used by pretty
much everyone to work on machine
learning and every other step on this
list Builds on top of it this mainly
applies to beginners that don't know
what a list or a dictionary are and that
don't know how to write a simple if else
statement or a for loop I would even go
as far as saying you need to learn what
a list comprehension and what class
inheritance are and honestly I don't
know what else to say than just type in
Python tutorial or course on YouTube or
Google and get started there's so much
amazing free content out there but you
should always keep in Minds to actively
code along the tutorial enjoy getting
into machine learning with python but
don't go too in depth this lets you
start with a fun experience because at
some point you will also have to learn
maths now you could argue that you don't
need mouths because so much is already
automated and taken care of by cool
python libraries which is true but you
will need to know all the fundamentals
of calculus linear algebra and
probability Theory to understand pretty
much any machine learning approach that
said you really don't need complex maths
most of the maths is high school or
entrylevel college maths like you just
need to understand what the derivative
of a function is and how to compute it
you need to know what a matrix is and
how the dot product works there again
are amazing resources out there that are
free like these courses right here or a
website called Can Academy I mean you
can even learn most of what you need on
brilliant.org sadly not sponsored or you
just go to college and take the
mandatory maths classes for any
engineering major I'll tell you about my
absolute favorite resource for learning
the fundamental Maths for new networks
after we cover the next important steps
this already shows you that you don't
need to hustle through all the m courses
there are in the beginning in fact I
wouldn't even recommend that because it
can be very frustrating and just not fun
whenever you don't understand some maths
later on you can always revisit it by
just Googling learn the basics and then
continue on to the next fun step
learning about the ml developer stack so
now you know the basics of python and if
you haven't already can learn some basic
tools like Jupiter notebooks and
libraries like pandas numpy and matplot
lip numpy is a library for for doing
mouths with matrices or arrays it's a
great starting point because you can now
implement the mouths that you just
learned about and see how simple it is
to compute a DOT product between two
matrices met plot lip is a tool for
visualizing data and graphs and just
seeing what maths you are doing and in
my opinion at least visualizing stuff is
fun and just very useful finally pandas
is a great tool for dealing with data
that is in tabular format a lot of
machine learning problems deal with
tabular data and pandas lets you again
very easily manipulate those and
visualize the tables all those libraries
also work very well with Jupiter
notebooks and are an essential part of
learning machine learning as you will
see by getting to know those Frameworks
you will automatically improve your
overall practical Python and ml skills
but again only focus on the basics by
following a few tutorials later when
working on projects you'll really get to
know the libraries so now let's get back
to some Theory and finally actually
learn about machine learning and deep
learning okay up until now everything
should honestly not take too long
perhaps a few weeks depending on how
much time you put in and at what level
you already are but the ml courses I
will now recommend do take some time the
best and probably most famous machine
learning course or collection of courses
is the machine learning specialization
by Andrew Nung the cool thing is that
you here already get to know some
machine learning Frameworks like psyched
learn and tensorflow well I do have to
admit I personally prefer and would
recommend py Toge but learning one
framework pretty much lets you already
quickly adapt to the other one this
course is absolute gold and it's free
although this is the beginner course it
is still very important they here teach
a lot of classical ml Concepts and those
are the things you need to be able to
answer quite easily in ml interviews now
remember when I teased my favorite
resource for learning maths in neural
networks well after learning about those
in Andrew's course I would watch Andre
kathi's neural network series he here
implements a simple NLP model from the
ground up and goes all the way up to a
Transformer model he also goes through
all the maths of back propagation and so
on I cannot recommend this series enough
since in Andrew NS and Andre kathi's
courses you already get some practical
experience with the taught ml Concepts I
would then continue on to the next more
advanced and practical course the Deep
learning specialization this course
focuses more on implementing and
training new Nets and the absolutely
amazing thing here is that they also
include hugging face which is a library
that you pretty much cannot avoid it's
really amazing and if you feel like this
course doesn't teach you enough about
hugging face you can also just go
through the hugging face NLP course
directly there you also learn even more
advanced concepts in NLP well if you are
interested in NLP that is so yeah those
are the two or perhaps even three
courses I would take and recommend by
now you have learned a lot and worked on
several smaller projects or rather
tutorials now it's time to actually get
your hands dirty and work on real
projects I honestly think you here learn
the most and there are two things I
would work on first I would go to kagle
and just work on challenges there are
many available for any level try not to
underestimate the complexity and start
with simpler challenges so you don't get
frustrated and demotivated and if you do
take on more difficult ones that also
come with prize money don't expect to
win one it's really difficult to get to
that point and you also need a lot of
compute so okay after working on kegle
challenges comes my final and favorite
type of project to work on
reimplementing a paper and recreating
the results this is challenging and you
will learn a lot and most importantly
this type of project will definitely
help you stand out on your ml
application that said there are a few
other simpler ways to stand out that you
can already get started during your
learning process so I'm sure you might
want to watch this video right here
where I reveal those techniques and tips
bye-bye
