hey thanks for checking out this video
on learning HTML CSS and JavaScript in a
short amount of time learning web design
is going to be profitable in any area of
your career and any area of your life -
if you really enjoy working on web
design and that's what you do for a
living so in this short video I will
show you how you can learn the basics of
web design in a short amount of time but
I also want to let you know about a
project that I've been working on called
sass adventure you can check it out at
sass adventure IO and it is a 21 day
program where you can learn to create
your own software as-a-service so this
means you can create a
software-as-a-service where other people
can pay you a certain amount every month
to use your service it's a great way to
become financially free and really just
continue to work on what you love and
make a great living from it so be sure
to check it out at sass adventure IO and
without further ado let's jump into
learning HTML CSS and JavaScript ok so
before we can start writing some code we
need to use a text editor and you can
just google any kind of you know text
editor if we were to Google text editor
we see that we have a few up here
sublime text is very popular but one
that I'm going to use throughout this
video is called vs code so you can
Google vs code you can go here and you
can click on download for Mac or PC or
whichever operating system that you are
using so let's go ahead and jump into
talking about HTML so we already have
our editor I'm just going to create a
new folder on my desktop and I will just
title this HTML and I'm going to drag
this folder into my text editor which is
visual studio code okay so now I need to
create a new file and I'm going to name
this new file index dot HTML and
whenever you create an HTML file you
need to end it with an extension of dot
HTML and doing that will let the web
browser know that hey this is an HTML
file so inside of our index.html I can
simply type out something alike hello
world and if I were to save that
and if I open this up
by double-clicking it you can see that
it gets opened up in a browser and we
get a message that says hello world and
this is our first home page that we just
created and you can see it's that easy
it is simply a text file that opens up
in a browser and gets displayed as a web
page of course this is not proper HTML
syntax so we will need to give proper
syntax for our HTML document and to do
that we start off every document with
the exclamation doctype HTML enclosed
with these brackets and then we create
an HTML document and whenever we open a
tag we also have to close a tag so this
is what is referred to as a tag it is
when you have some kind of text inside
of a less-than and greater-than sign and
then you close it with a less-than and
greater-than sign you'll be seeing a lot
of this inside of HTML so then we need
to add the head of our document and this
is where we'll add things like be title
[Music]
and then we will need to add the body
and the body is where the actual content
will live that gets displayed on the
page so let's go ahead and create our
first paragraph so to create a paragraph
we need to add the paragraph tag so we
will say P and then we'll say hello
world and now if I save this and we go
back to that page you'll probably see
that this is going to look exactly the
same but if we were to open up developer
tools and go to elements this is
actually structured of like a correct
HTML web page so just like that we've
created our first HTML web page with
proper syntax so learning hTML is all
about learning these tags so we have
this paragraph tag and then we also have
heading tags so we have we can say h1
hello there and remember we close the
tag anytime we open a tag so here we
have a heading 1 tag I can save that and
reload and now you can see that it shows
as larger text we can then go back we
have h1 h2 h3 and all the way up to h6
and they're just different levels of
headings we also have multiple different
things like like lists so we have
headings we have paragraphs and then we
can also have a list so maybe we want to
have like a list of maybe groceries so
you l stands for unordered list and then
inside of the unordered list we have
list items so as you can see everything
that we're opening we're also closing so
we open this unordered list we close the
unordered list and same with the list
item we opened it and closed it so maybe
we want to add eggs milk
and cheese so now you can see I just
created a list of grocery items and if I
were to save that go back here and
reload you can see that we get a list of
eggs milk and cheese next up we can also
add some links to our page if we wanted
so I could add a link by using the a tag
and inside of here I will say add a
grocery item so if I save that we go
back here and reload you can see that we
have a link but it actually doesn't show
up as a link in here and that's because
we need to give our a tag and attribute
and an attribute is simply additional
text that we can use to add to our tag
that will give it some more
functionality so in here I'm going to
say href equals and I'm going to provide
a link and I'm just gonna put a link to
Google right here so if I were to save
that and go back here and reload now you
can see that actually it looks like a
link so there are a ton more of these
attributes that we can add that we will
go over here shortly
but next let's move on to images so to
add an image to a page we can say image
source so you can see that we're also
using an attribute for our image tag and
the unique thing about an image tag is
it doesn't require a closing tag so you
may find a few of these inside of HTML
that some elements do not require it to
be closed it simply closes itself so
inside of this source we need to
actually provide the source of the image
so let's find an image from images
Google let's just say funny dog and this
guy looks good okay so I want to open
this image in a new tab and that's kind
of a weird image let's take a look at
this guy open an image in new tab yeah
we can see it has a dot jpg extension
I'm gonna copy that and put that right
there let me zoom out just a little bit
and go back here reload our page and now
you can see that we have this picture of
the dog so we just went over headings
paragraphs lists links and images and
there are about three more elements that
I want to cover so one is the table
element
so sometimes you will see things inside
of a table on a webpage so you can do
that by saying table and then inside of
our table we have rows so I'll say table
row and then instead of each row we have
a table data say I am some data
and I can just copy this and paste that
like that
you
okay so if I save that we go back here
and reload you can see that we have some
table data and I can actually add a
border to this table if I reload you can
see that we now have a border around
this table so I could possibly have
another table data item here let's
change the text a little bit I am more
data ten that didn't really change it
much oh well okay so we save that we
reload and now you can see that the
table data right here has two columns
and then we have three rows so that is
the basics of a table element sometimes
you want to use a table so you can have
a nice layout of data next I want to
talk about a div element so a div
element is just an element that you can
use for anything you can create a box
you could create a circle if you wanted
it's simply used for any kind of
container so we can just say div and
inside here I can just add some text so
I save that in reload it doesn't really
look like much and that's because we
haven't added any styles or added any
attributes to this div but what you can
do with div elements is you can maybe
float some left and float some right and
then I just kind of wanted to point this
out we'll go into more detail once we
start learning some CSS here shortly so
just know that divs elements are simply
just a container that you can wrap
anything in next up is the form element
so we have a form and this has a few
attributes that we can add to it such as
action which is where we want this to
post to so we can say where we want the
form to post to and we'll just have it
post to itself and then we have the
method and this is whether it is a post
or a get and I think the scope of the
get in the post might be a little bit
beyond this video but we'll just say a
get request and inside of this form we
can have multiple input elements so I
can have an input of text and I can say
that I want this to have a name of name
and a place holder of name
and then let's go ahead and add a button
so if I save that we go back here we
reload you can see now that we have this
new form home and I forgot to add
something there or actually we have an
extra bracket so let me go ahead and
just comment out our list and our image
okay so now if I reload you can see that
form right here so we can say hello
click on submit and you can see that the
get request actually passes the name
that I just typed in here so you can see
that it changes right there and we can
use this data once once we learn a
back-end programming language to capture
the data that the user just posted and
then do whatever we want with that data
okay so that is the very very basics of
HTML hTML is all about learning these
tags and how you can use them in your
webpage so let's go over a brief summary
of what we just learned so we learned
about heading tags which we can do h1
through h6 and that will just give us a
large heading text we also learned about
paragraph tags where we can add a
paragraph to our page and then we
learned about our lists so this was our
list where we added a grocery list of
eggs milk and cheese and then we also
learned about links so links will take
you from one page to another and then we
had images so HTML images will display
an image on the page it's very
self-explanatory then we have a tables
that we explained we talked about divs
which are just containers that can store
anything and then we also have our form
elements oh and it looks like actually I
had a closing div here and this would be
improper HTML I would need to actually
close that with a form tag and there are
multiple input types that you can learn
to use such as type text type checkbox'
there's also some dropdowns that you can
use as well but we just wanted to cover
the very basics of HTML and next let's
move on to learning some CSS ok now
let's learn a little bit of CSS so I'm
going to create a new folder on my
desktop and just call this CSS and I
will open this up in my editor and
create a new file called index.html and
I'm going to give us a basic HTML
structure and then add a paragraph to my
body tag and I'm just going to say CSS
is awesome
okay so there are three ways that you
can add CSS to your HTML page the first
way is to add an inline style so this is
actually adding an attribute called
style and we can say that we want the
style to have a property which is the
color and we want to be colored to have
a value of we'll say blue in this case
so if I save this we can go ahead and
open this up
and you can see that our text is indeed
blue so this is one way to include style
inside of your page now let's say that
we duplicated this and then what if we
made a change to the color here we said
white and then we want to be background
to be blue so if we save that and we go
back here and reload you can now see
that the background is blue and the text
is white so then if we wanted all of our
paragraphs to look the same we would
then have to copy all these styles and
paste it in here again so instead of
doing that over and over again there is
a simpler way that we can add styles to
elements that they can be applied to
every single element so this was inline
styles
we can also add internal styles so that
would be adding a style tag to the head
of our document and then we can say for
all paragraphs so BP tag we then have a
open curly brace and a closing curly
brace and inside of here we can add
these properties and values so I pasted
that in there
and just remove the inline styles so now
I can save that go back here and reload
and you can see that these style gets
applied to both paragraphs if I were
then to change the background to green
and we reload you can see that that
style gets applied as well so those are
two ways to include CSS in your page we
had inline and internal and the last way
which is the most common is to include
an external style sheet so we will do
that by adding a link tag to our head
and this has a rel equal style sheet and
href is going to be the place where we
store the location of our CSS file so
I'm going to say that I want my CSS file
to be in the same directory as my
index.html and I want to call it
style.css so let's create that file okay
so now we have our style that CSS and
our index.html which includes this style
dot CSS so now I can say that I want all
the paragraphs to have a color of white
and a background let's change that to
red and let's reload and now you can see
that that gets applied as well so those
are the three ways that you can include
CSS in your HTML is inline internal and
external now that we know how to include
CSS in our page let's learn a little bit
about all these different styles that we
can add to our page so the HTML is the
structure of our page and the CSS is the
styles that get applied to the structure
of our page so instead of our style at
CSS we have our paragraph tag and we
have the color white and background red
so the color is what is referred to as
the property and the white is what is
called the value so every single
property has a specific value and CSS is
really about learning all these
different properties and the values
associated with them to make your HTML
page look really nice so let's play
around with a few more properties so I'm
going to say that I want the font size
to be a hundred pixels let me save that
and reload now you can see that that
font size is really large next we can
say font style maybe I want this to be
italic you can save that and reload and
now you can see that it is italic so
there are a ton of different font
properties background properties and
color properties that you can use inside
of your CSS we're only going to cover
just the very basics in here and you'll
have to go on and learn about every
single property and value and the place
that I usually recommend to most people
is w3 schools so if you go to w3 schools
comm you can click here to learn HTML
and learn CSS and they also have a learn
JavaScript so if you go to the learn CSS
you will find out about all these
properties and the Associated values so
let's jump back over to our project and
have a little bit more fun so I'm going
to create a new div and I'm going to add
some text inside of it so inside of my
style I'm going to say for every single
div element I want it to have a property
of width of 100 pixels and a height of
100 pixels and let's give it a green
background so let me save that go back
here and reload and now you can see that
we have this box right here and let me
take this font size away because that is
really big okay so now you can see that
we have this box right here in front of
us and we just applied some styles to
this div so one thing that I do want to
tell you about is identifier zand
classes or IDs and classes so we can add
an ID to this div so that way we can
reference this specific div itself
because you can see if we were to create
another div right below it all the
styles are going to be applied to that
div as well so what we can do is we can
specify a unique identifier so I can say
ID equals box
so right here I want to change this to
hash and that's how we reference an ID
I'm going to say box
I want to apply those Styles only to an
ID web box so I go back here and reload
you can see that those Styles only got
applied to that specific div so let's
say for instance then that we wanted to
have multiple divs we wouldn't use the
ID box because ID should be unique for
the document you should never have the
same identifiers in one document instead
in that case you would use what is
called a class so if we have a class
instead of using the hash sign we
actually use the dot symbol so now if we
use that and we reload you can see that
the style gets applied to both of these
div with a class of box and you can also
see how they are right on top of each
other let's add a little bit of spacing
so here we can add some margin I can say
10 pixels and now you can see that it
has some spacing around the box then we
can also add some padding and the
padding will add some spacing inside of
the box so you can see that the padding
is inside and the margin is spacing
outside then we could also apply a
property called border and maybe we want
to give it a border of two pixels we
want it to be solid and we want it to
have a color of red so let's reload that
and you can see now that we have this
border around each of our boxes so just
a few more properties that I want to
cover I also want to cover the flow
property so maybe we want the boxes
instead of them being vertically stacked
maybe I want them to be laid out
horizontally if I add this float:left
they will both be floating left and they
will be horizontally aligned as opposed
to vertically aligned next I want to
talk about a property called position
and by default all elements have a
position of relative which just means
that wherever they are at inside of the
HTML document is where they will be
displayed so we have position relative
and that looks exactly the same there's
another one that's called position
absolute and this is saying that I want
this element to be positioned
typically where I tell it to so I can
say I want this to be position:absolute
and I want to be positioned at the top
of zero pixels and left of zero pixels
so if I were to save that and reload now
you can see that actually gets
positioned at top:0 left:0 you can see
that it has a little bit of spacing up
on the top and the left and that's
because we have our margin so let's just
set that back to relative or we can just
completely remove these properties so
that is just the very basics of CSS like
I said I would recommend going over to
w3 schools learning all about these
properties and values and how you can
apply them to your HTML to make it look
a lot nicer I would also recommend maybe
just checking out a website and seeing
how their things are laid out and maybe
even try copying that and try
replicating that because the key to
mastering your skill is going to be all
about practice you can just go on we're
going to want to practice in practice
and you are just going to get better and
better and your websites are going to
look nicer and nicer as well okay so now
that we have HTML and CSS down let's
learn a bit about JavaScript okay now
let's learn how we can add some
interactivity to our pages by learning
some JavaScript so I'm just going to
create another new folder on my desktop
called JavaScript and move this into my
editor and again I'm going to create
another file called index.html with a
basic HTML structure okay so I'm also
going to add another div and give that
an ID of box and now there are two ways
that we can add JavaScript to our page
similar to CSS we can add our JavaScript
internal so I can add some script tags
right here and I can do something called
console log hello so the console log
will actually print out a message inside
of our developer tools let me show you
what the developer tools looks like so
if I open up the page you can see that
we don't have anything on the page but
if I open up developer tools with
command shift I or you can go up here
and go to more tools and say developer
tools so I want to go to the console and
you can see now that we have this
message printed out
right here called hello so that is one
way to include JavaScript inside of our
HTML file we can also include an
external script similar to CSS so I can
say script and I want this source to
load script J s from our current
directory so now I need to create that
file script j s and I will say
console.log javascript is rad so save
that going back here reload and now you
can see that we get the output
javascript is rad so using console.log
we can easily output content to the
console and will help us debug our app
and maybe even get the contents of
certain variables so with that said
variables is something that we will talk
about first so you can create a variable
and store any type of value in it so a
variable is essentially a container that
can store a number so we can store the
value of 10 inside of number we could
also store a string and we could also
store a boolean value so we could say is
rad equals true now let's say that we
want to add this string right here to
actually be displayed on our page
because as you can see our page doesn't
do much so let's say that we want to
store hello there inside of our ID box
so we can do that by calling document
and we want to get the document and then
we want to get an element by ID and the
ID is box and we want to set the inner
HTML to be equal to string so if I save
that and reload you can see that
actually gets added to that div so you
can see right here inside of our ID box
is the text hello there so we can add
text we could also add this number
instead and we could also do some
arithmetic so maybe we wanted to add 5
to number so we could save that in
reload and now we get the value of 15 so
you can do all kinds of math arithmetic
comparison operators inside of
JavaScript
additionally we can run conditionals in
JavaScript so we can say if a condition
is met we want to do scenario a
otherwise we want to do scenario B so
let's go ahead and create an if
statement so we'll say if number is
equal to 10 then we want to console.log
yeah buddy
let me say else console.log nope
okay so if we save that go back here
reload and go to our console you can see
that we get the output yeah buddy
and if we were to set the value to let's
say 5 and we reload this you can see
that we get the value of nope and the
cool thing about JavaScript is you can
actually run all this JavaScript right
here inside of your browser so I could
create a new variable and call this age
equals 21 and now I can say if age is
greater than or equal to 21 we can
console.log you can live here so you can
see that that got output so you can do a
lot of programming in JavaScript right
here directly inside of your console
next let's talk about loops so every
good application has loops so a loop
essentially runs through a certain piece
of code a certain amount of times so
let's create our first for loop so I'm
going to create a for loop and I'm going
to say var I is equal to 0 and the
condition that we want to meet that we
keep on running through this loop is we
want I to be less than 10 but each time
we run through the loop we want I to
increment by 1 so now let's go ahead and
just console.log the value of I so if I
save that we go back here and reload you
can see that we get 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
so you can use loops to loop through
functionality in your application loop
through arrays and objects since we're
talking about arrays let me go ahead and
show you how this would work
so let me create a new array which is
called groceries and the array you use
the bracket notation and inside of here
maybe I want to store the value of milk
will say eggs and cheese okay so maybe
we want to loop through each of these
grocery items and display them on the
screen so I can do that by saying for
bar equal to 0 and instead of I less
than 10 I actually want I to be less
than will say groceries dot length and
that is the total length of the array
which in this case is going to be 3 so
then we want to print out groceries and
we want that to print out at location I
so for the first time through it's going
to print out at 0 1 and then 2 so if we
save this we go back here and reload you
can now see that we get each of these
items displayed on the screen ok and
next let's talk about functions so I
function you can think of like a machine
like you put something in and you
usually get something out or you press a
button to start that machine and then
something comes out so in this case we
are going to just create a function and
we will just call this list groceries so
instead of here I'm going to add my for
loop so if I were to add that I click on
save and we come back here and reload
you're gonna see that we don't get any
output because even though we have our
function here we're actually not calling
it so we need to call our function so
here I'm going to say list groceries and
if I save that and we reload now we get
the output because we called our
function so functions make it very
useful to create functionality that
you're going to use over and over again
you can simply call the function and use
it multiple times throughout your
application ok and before wrapping up
this video there's one last thing that I
want to talk about which is event
listeners so let's say that anytime we
click on this box right here I'm going
to add some text here we want to maybe
alert the user about
something so what we can do is we can
add an event listener so we can say
document dot get element by ID we want
to get that box and we want to add an
event listener so we want to say once
that element is clicked we want to run
this specific function so let's just
alert to the user
I got clicked so let me save that go
back here and reload and now let's click
on the box and you can see that we get
this alert right here so you will use
these event listeners throughout your
application to create functionality when
users click when users hover whenever
any kind of functionality happens in
your application you'll be using these
event listeners quite a bit so that is
just a basic overview of JavaScript you
just learned HTML CSS and JavaScript in
a really short amount of time and like I
said you will probably want to go to
w3schools and you'll want to go through
each of these tutorials and learn inside
of HTML all the different elements that
you can use with CSS you'll want to
learn about all the properties and
values and JavaScript you will want to
learn about all the different types the
variables that you can create the
different functions that you can create
and like I said it's all about practice
so you just practice practice practice
and you're really going to hone in on
your skills and just get so much better
at your craft so I really hope that this
video has helped you and if you do have
any questions please feel free to ask
them in the comment section below and
happy coding and I hope that you will
continue to learn more about web
development because it is going to show
to be valuable in any area of your
career hey thanks again for watching my
video if you do want to learn how to
create your own software as-a-service
after you have learned web design and
you've learned a little bit about PHP
and laravel which I do have tutorials
for each of those languages you'll want
to head over to sass adventure Ohio and
this is where you can sign up for our 21
day program and you can learn how to
create your own software as-a-service
it's actually a lot of fun each day that
you complete you will get a new badge
inside of your user area and you will
learn all kinds of cool technology
so make sure to head on over to sass
adventure dot IO to start creating your
software as a service
