hello guys welcome back my name is Adam
and is the fifth episode in our
fundamentals course the topic for today
is cloud service models what are their
differences and what are their key
characteristics stay tuned as always at
the beginning of the episode let me
start with the session objectives so
what is being tested during the exam in
this section you need to understand what
exactly is infrastructure platform and
software as a service but also
understand them well enough to be able
to compare and contrast them between
each other and to better understand that
we need to first understand what exactly
is considered infrastructure platform
and software and for that reason I
prepared you a very small exercise an
example so let's imagine we are a
startup company and we want to host our
own application and build entire
infrastructure for that reason of course
the first thing we will need to do that
is to purchase some servers so all the
hardware that will actually run the
applications themselves obviously our
servers needs to be able to connect to
the Internet
therefore we will need to provide all
the networking infrastructure as well
including the Internet connectivity
itself because every server needs a
storage you will need to additionally
provide a storage infrastructure another
doors our hard drives or solid stair
drives some raid our eyes and things
like that we need to provide that
additionally once this is in place you
have all the hardware needed in order to
run the server now in order to ensure
the best utilization of the hardware
that you have you will want to run some
virtualization software so that you can
run multiple virtual machine on a single
Hardware piece so that you can host
multiple applications but still maintain
the total separation of the environments
and virtualization software will allow
you to do that at that point you will
start creating multiple virtual machines
in order to host your applications all
those virtual machines will need an
operating systems
whenever does Windows or Linux or any
other operating system on the market as
the operating system is in place you
additionally want to install a
middleware which typically means all the
software additions that you need in
order to run the system and the
application itself and a typical
application will additionally need a
runtime so another layer of the software
which will host your application if this
is a web application this could be IES
web container if it's a container
application and maybe a docker but
runtime is additional layer that you
will need to maintain yourself once all
of those layers are in place we are now
finally ready host our application and
application data on that system well
there are quite a few layers on the
screen a few clear distinctions can be
made here first four layers from the
bottom are so-called infrastructure so
all the layers that directly are related
to the hardware and the virtualization
next layers can be grouped our platform
layers so operating system middleware
and runtime to all the software's all
the system and configuration that is
required for you to run the application
but not the application itself and the
last part the application and the data
itself is so-called software layer and
the asset service part of our episode
means who will manage what if you manage
all of those layers that means we're
talking about the on premises so the
clear ownership is on you you manage all
the infrastructure platform and the
software and cloud providers not even
involved but if you decide to outsource
the infrastructure purchase the
infrastructure from the cloud provider
to let Microsoft manage the
infrastructure while you manage the
platform and software this is so-called
infrastructure as a service so the
ownership of that part goes to a cloud
provider in this case Microsoft will
manage all the networking hardware and
the virtualization itself while you will
manage the platform and the software
part typical use cases here are
migration of the world from the
on-premises testing and development but
also extending your on-premise
environment of the capacity of the cloud
so that you can create storage backup
and disaster recovery scenarios
the list of services used in order to
implement infrastructure-as-a-service
solutions is quite long but typically
you will see things like virtual machine
virtual networks managed disks or one of
many services that you can use for this
purpose but in general the rule of thumb
is if someone says that they have
infrastructure as a service solution
that means they have a lot of virtual
machines and probably this is the skills
they're looking for if you're designing
for the cloud you most likely will go
one level up so you will allow Microsoft
to manage the platform and the
infrastructure part while you just build
your own applications in that case we
are talking about platform as a service
in this model cloud provider will manage
the infrastructure and the platform so
besides the hardware Microsoft will need
to manage operating system all the
security patches all the middleware and
the runtime to host your application and
you will only need to build and manage
your own applications typically this
model is used whenever you're developing
cloud applications this could be a
state-of-the-art web applications AI
machine learning business analytic
solutions well pretty much anything if
you're building applications you're most
likely using platform as a service
solutions in this case we can talk about
SQL for relational databases app service
for web hosting logic apps for
enterprise integrations function apps
for several Azure one of the dozens or
even hundreds of other services allowing
you to take advantage of cloud in a
platform as a service model and if you
decide to outsource everything to
Microsoft that means you are using
software as a service model in that case
the ownership of the cloud provider is
everything and there's nothing on you
you could think what would be the case
of software as a service usually this
means buying of the Shelf applications
applications like Outlook Skype onedrive
and all the other business applications
that you're probably using every day
this is software as a service from
Microsoft managers every
and you just use the applications I will
now summarize the differences between
those service models but from a little
bit different angle if you let cloud
provider manage the physical data center
buildings
networking security servers and storage
we are talking about infrastructure as a
service if that cloud provider
additionally manages the operating
system and the development tools we are
talking about the platform as a service
but if that cloud provider additionally
manages the applications in the data we
are talking about the software as a
service maybe this view will let you
better understand the scope of
responsibilities for each of those
service models and that's pretty much it
if you want to summarize what you
learned go to my website - episode
number 5 check out the study guides with
official links to Microsoft documents on
those free service types
check out the cheat sheet and check your
own knowledge what you learned here in
the practice test and that's it for this
episode I appreciate every single one of
you that stayed until the very end if
you like what I do support the channel
by subscribing liking and commenting if
you want to follow to the next episode
simply use the playlists or hit the icon
on the side and see you in the next
episode
you
