AWS Amazon web services is one of the
oldest and one of the leading Cloud
providers in the market today offering
close to 200 100 plus services and it's
very easy for us to get lost in these
different 200 plus services so today in
this video I will talk about 24 most
popular AWS products uh under these
different categories uh we will have a
very quick overview of what exactly
these services do to enable you to
understand and whether you should use
this service or not so we'll take a very
quick sneak peek into what exactly these
24 services do and how you could use
these services in your Solutions so
let's get started so these are those 24
Services which are according to me the
most used obviously you could differ on
certain services but let's quickly
understand uh what exactly these
services do so the bread and butter of
AWS has been its compute from the very
beginning so the very first and the most
popular service is ec2 elastic compute
Cloud it is the is offering from AWS and
you using ec2 you could create your
virtual machines you can spin up your
virtual machines and you could add scale
uh you could downgrade the machines very
easily so this is the basic the most
important and the strength of AWS which
is it easy to service the second in the
list is Lambda which is a very important
and widely used Services it is an event
driven comp compute service serverless
compute service and under Lambda you
could write your custom application code
to do certain task which are very small
which are which are required to do a
specific activity suppose you take a
photograph you upload it somewhere and
then you run a Lambda function on top of
it so that it could be resized into a
tablet or for a tablet or a laptop so
those kind of small things suppose you
want to upload an Excel file you can run
the Lambda to convert that Excel file
into a CSV I'm just giving you examples
so if you want to create your end to
endend web application Lambda functions
could be used at certain places to uh
you know to create those event driven uh
functions so very important serverless
offering under comput the third in the
list is elastic beanock and sometimes we
get confused between Lambda and beanock
because there are lot of similarity you
could deploy your code into beanock and
create your web application beanock
would deploy and run your web
application without any compute uh
facility being managed by you
specifically so the difference between
Lambda and bean stock is Lambda is
created for specific tasks which are
smaller in size wherein for bean stock
you could deploy your whole website on
beanock so it is to deploy your full
full scale web applications you could
deploy your code and then rest is taken
care by
AWS Hello friends a quick reminder AWS
for dummies course which is for
beginners on cloud especially on AWS is
now live we have more than 12 plus hours
of content on the course with Hands-On
exercises and quizzes so do check this
offer it's for limited time I really
want you guys to get onto this Cloud
Journey so link is in the description
check it out and I really want to see
you there now back to the video another
very important service in AWS is AWS S3
which is an object storage which is
called as simple storage Services it is
an object store where you could store
all kinds of data structured
unstructured semi-structured data and
potentially this becomes your Landing
Zone when whenever you're starting any
kind of work in AWS S3 bucket you need
to create an S3 bucket upload your files
it could also create become your data
link Amazon S3 could also host a website
with static content there are plenty of
uses you so you could upload your log
files analytics data video music files
Twitter feeds whatever you call it
simple storage service S3 bucket is the
object storage which you need to use the
next in the list is elastic Block store
which is also called as EBS so this
actually provides the block storage or
block volume for your ec2 instance you
can attach your SSD or your HDD uh Block
store uh for your ec2 instances and
these are very high performing block
storage so reads and writes become
really fast if you attach ec2 and EBS so
your elastic Block store becomes your
backbone of your ec2 instance and you
could store all the data into this block
store so under database the first
product offering is uh Amazon Aurora
which is the rdbms relational database
Management Service and it offers full
compatibility with mySQL and post SQL
databases and with 5x and 3X throughput
speed so if you need a postra or a MySQL
data database instance you don't have to
provision it on ec2 you could simply use
this serverless uh service and rest all
will be managed by AWS while you
leverage all the benefits of MySQL and
post address and the second one is
Dynamo DB which is a nosql database if
you want to know more about no SQL
database there's a specific video I have
created but this particular service is
again uh offered by AWS as a serverless
service wherein you could provision
key value or document databases so this
is the nosql database offering so the
next in the list is RDS relational
database service which consist of six
different data uh databases offered by
AWS Amazon Aurora comes under this then
postgress SQL uh MySQL Maria DB um SQL
Server Oracle all these kind of
different databases could be provisioned
under relational database service and
again everything is managed by AWS so
the last one is elastic cachier which is
an inmemory DB offering by AWS you could
get microsc performance using inmemory
caching uh use cases like gaming
streaming data hosting content which
needs high performance all that can be
cashed in memory and for that you use
elastic caching so the next category is
network and content delivery and under
this the first product is VPC virtual
private cloud
it's an offering which you might have
heard of in Google and Azure as well
with the help of VPC you could
understand how you would manage your
resources how one resource would connect
to the other resource within that
virtual Network environment how you
would secure your Cloud environment all
that happens through VPC and generally
your networking team would be doing this
work for you the second offering is
cloudfront which is a Content delivery
uh Network offering Whenever there is a
requirement to access certain content
from a certain geographical location
this cloudfront service could provide
that particular data into that
particular Edge location AWS Edge
location so that the user who's sitting
closer to that particular GE location
could fetch the data using Cloud front
from that particular Edge location so
it's a CDN offering so Route 53 is a
very fancy name for a simple DNS service
domain name service if you don't know
what is DNS go check out my video
there's a complete playlist for
networking so DNS domain name service
helps you get the IP address of any
website you want to navigate so Route 53
is the component which you need to
configure if you want to use the DNS
service within
AWS elastic load balancing again it
implements load balancing for uh you
know application load balancer Gateway
load balancer Network load balancer all
these kind of different load balancing
activities can be done using elastic
load balancing service I have created
two part series for understanding load
balancing in depth so you can check that
as well API Gateway is all about
managing creating publishing securing
apis testing apis so if you want to
connect two different systems with the
help of API and you want to transact
between the two systems using API then
you need to use API gateways so under
analytics the first product is Amazon
Kinesis which is which helps collect
process store realtime streaming data
from um for example streaming video
games for example from iot devices
anything wherein we need streaming data
to be captured and processed immediately
we need uh Amazon Kinesis as a service
and then there are multiple offerings
within that so you for example you have
Amazon Kinesis video streams which is
specifically built to capture uh any
kind of realtime video which is coming
in live for example there's a football
match which is going in live you want to
capture that and process information out
of it then you'll plug in Amazon Kinesis
video stream offering uh to process it
so this is something which you need to
consider if you are if you are working
on processing real time streaming data
so the second in the list is Amazon red
shift which is AWS answer to Google big
query AWS red shift is AWS reply or a
competitor product to Big query Google
big query it also helps you run
analytics workload meant for your data
warehouses and data Lakes it is SQL
based so you can use uh red shift for
running all kind of your analytical use
cases an analytical workloads and then
you can store the data in red shift and
then process it in your machine learning
in your AI or ml models you could do
pretty much everything uh because it's
really really fast you could process xab
of data in seconds so yeah it is one of
of the very important service if you're
coming from a data analytics and data
data warehousing background AWS glue is
purely an ETL product it is a data
integration service which helps you
connect with various kind of different
sources it could be real time it could
be badge it could be iot whatever and
then you could use AWS glue to create
ETL workflows to process the data
analyze the data extract transform and
load the data into the target systems
this is a very important piece if you
designing your data Pipeline and if you
want to know more see or check out my
data pipeline video under machine
learning one product which I have
highlighted is Amazon Sage maker because
this product can be used to build train
and deploy all types of machine learning
models it can help you implement machine
learning operations which is also called
as mlops so while working on these ml
models you don't have to care about any
backend infrastructure needs because AWS
process it for you so if you are a data
scientist if you are an ml engineer you
need to understand more about Amazon
Sage maker so the next category is
security and in security the main
service which is used across all clouds
is I am identity and access management
so as the name suggest IM am goal is to
understand who can access what where who
is the user can access is the policies
which you uh you know which you enforce
and what is the actual resource which is
coming into the picture so you could
create fine grain access controls using
identity and access management this is a
very important area and that's why we
have Cloud admins IM admins managing the
security of the platform managing the
access and authorization authentication
and authorization of uh the cloud
platform so Cloud IM is a very important
service kmsk Management Service lets you
create manage and control all kinds of
cryptographic keys which you use to
encrypt and decrypt your data so KMS is
a very important service coming to
Containers eks elastic cuber service is
a manage service provided by Amazon to
run all kinds of your kubernetes
workload if you don't know much about
kubernetes or containers you could check
my videos on the same the second in the
list under containers is fargate fargate
is the serverless compute offering to
run all kinds of container workloads so
if you have a container image you could
simply deploy it using fargate and rest
all regarding the infrastructure needs
will be taken care by this service and
then this fargate can also integrate
with eks so the 24th and the last
product in our list is Amazon Cloud
watch which comes under monitoring as
the name suggest it's the Watchmen of
our whole AWS platform because you with
the help of cloud watch you could
collect you could process you could
analyze and then eventually act on all
kinds of logs which gets generated by
different uh Services which we have
discussed and other services as well so
it gives you uh systemwide observability
as far as AWS is concerned so if you are
working in Sr devop support roles then
cloudwatch would be one of the very
common Services which you would use guys
with this we come to the end of this
video and I hope you know something
about these 24 Services which are quite
common in AWS but I'm sure you know
other services which are better than
these services so do let me know in the
comment section the service name and
what exactly it does in one line and it
will help the audience to learn more
about AWS platform if you have anything
which you want me to make on AWS like I
did in gcp let me know and I will learn
it and I'll share with it so until next
time guys keep learning keep sharing all
the knowledge and yes keep hustling bye
for now
