te currently in medical field without
prior Tech experience okay that's fine
no problem at all that's why we're here
to take you from zero to Cloud right it
doesn't matter your background we are
here to you know take you from zero to
the cloud so you have nothing to worry
about basically so like I was saying um
after the introduction we'll be bringing
one of our Cloud professionals on board
who's going to be talking to us about
you know the Cloud job rules basically
demystifying what the cloud role is all
about basically right and how you can
position yourself to be at The Cutting
Edge of what this opportunities what you
stand to get from this opportunities
right so um that's basically what we're
going to be doing for the first part of
the session and for the second part
we're going to be getting into the um
what's it called now into the um permit
me to to just check in yeah panel
discussion thank you panel discussion so
we're going to be going into the panel
discussion where we'll have them also
come on board and share with us um some
of the things that we need to equip
oursel with if we're going to be
transitioning into Tech it's very very
important so that you don't you don't
just go into it and then you find
yourself struggling and then you say
that oh at the end of the day you decide
to you know give up so we they are here
to answer all your questions basically
and on that note um it's very important
for you to note that um if you have any
question whatsoever kindly drop it um
we're going to be dropping a link in the
chat box so please kindly use the sedo
link to drop all your questions there
will be no question we will not be
taking any question from the chat box so
please and please a link will be dropped
for us in the chat box all right so it's
called a SLO link so once the link has
been dropped kindly just put in your
question there and we will be able to
take all your questions right we're
ready we are in for it tonight so you
have nothing to worry about but please
and please we just like you to take
notes of this the SLO link will be
dropped in the chat box very shortly so
we would like you to use that link to
you know put in your question whatever
question you have about transitioning
into Tech about Cloud about about devops
we are yet to answer those questions
right it's very very um important that
you take note of this okay so I'm going
to be getting back to the um chat
session again
so okay so Victor says um it's from a
boying it's not sure okay I'm not sure
cloud is for me or anything related to
Tech but I hope it will be for me at the
end of today definitely we're hoping
we're hoping as well um Al from Saudi
Arabia says is an operation SL
performance analyst I want to transition
into the main Tech cloud is where my
focus lies I have some key questions to
ask though okay great thank you Al for
sharing so please once we have the um
SLO link being dropped in the chat box
kindly use it to answer to drop in your
questions basically and you will be able
to take it all right thank you so much
um everyone I think that will be all for
now before I get to introduce our first
speaker for tonight our first speaker
for tonight so I'm going to be going
over is bio so that we can know that so
that you all can know that the person
we're bringing on board they are not
people who are just going to be telling
you something vague they've been into it
they've been into it and they know
everything that you need to be able to
be able to transition into Tech
basically so um I'm going to go ahead
and read a bio right now says um Charles
is a fixer and reformer at Arts is
passionate about problem solving and the
technology industry he's a senior Cloud
engineer at Amazon web services that AWS
stationed at their Cape Town office
before Amazon Childs worked with an
indigenous exploration and production
firm in Nigeria and was in charge of the
it infrastructure and IT service
management so you you you know what
you're getting into tonight Charles has
a bachelor's in electrical and
electronic engineering from the
University of ion and was appointed as a
Google student ambassador to UI by
Google while on campus the skill set
include Enterprise Cloud architect
infrastructure as code automation
systems Administration networking and
scripting he is an Avid Reader and
lifelong learner whenever you don't
found child um behind the computer
screen is probably draw me with his
fingers at the piano so ladies and
gentlemen this evening I would just like
you to welcome Charles as as it takes
over the session tonight um Charles good
evening good to have you on the call
thank you for joining us it's always a
pleasure to have
you um hello everyone thank you for
having me Charles here let me see if my
light's going better okay I think it's
good now hello thank you for having me
it's my pleasure to be here this evening
for the next couple minutes we'll be
looking at different Cloud rules and
hopefully you get an idea of where you
fit in which of the options that you can
try out and hopefully build career in
now we
are we are taking this webinar on a very
very basic level so we don't assume that
you have any prior it knowledge prior it
knowledge we expect you might be coming
from different
disciplines within Cloud P Academy we've
actually been able to convert those that
came from Linguistics English like
different history different fields and
are now working as Cloud Professionals
in Industry so if you join the academy
you get to hear from them from time to
time how they were able to move from
English or from the the literary world
to it world and our and our flourishing
in that industry so I'm just want to I
want to get my screen shared now yes so
let's kick it off so we'll be looking at
cloud different Cloud roles different
options of as a cloud professional or
devops engineer whatever those terms
mean and over the next couple slides
uh by the end of this session you
understand the key requirements for
landing atry level cloud jobs you also
discover different Cloud roles that
match your transferable skills and
interest and you can have more clarity
on your transition Journey
right so who is a cloud professional a
cloud professional is someone who works
with Cloud well systems and tools
apparently and when we say cloud
compared to traditional it systems where
you need to configure manually or
physically you get some cabling maybe
you go to Data Center very cooling
you're doing all this remotely
everything is secured in the cloud
somewhere maybe running on some data
center somewhere in the world you could
be in Europe and the data center the
server that you're working on is over in
the US or you could be in Europe the
servers that you're working on are in
Sydney or in Australia so a cloud
professional is someone who works with
different online tool systems and tools
different cloud services or even hybrid
cloud system that is working with Amazon
Google Cloud Azure cloud and being able
to configure that together to be able to
run an application the systems and tools
store manage and process data over the
Internet so you're not physically going
to Data Center to to go and go and
configure servers or troubleshoots
everything is done remotely instead of
using fiscal servers and you they help
businesses run their applications and
processes information in a way that is
flexible
secure and easy to access from anywhere
so let me let me blow your mind before
traditionally when before the era of the
cloud right um every company will have
its own data center this this room that
is heavily guarded in your organization
you must have seen some some rooms like
that many companies have now moved
online but we still have some companies
that still have data centers traditional
data centers they'll be very cooling
there'll be lot of cooling systems HED
specialized hbac systems love server
rcks if you peep into it be like one
heavily GED like a bunker an underground
bunker or maybe like where to put the
gold coins and American Federal Reserve
Bank yeah that's how the rooms look so
you would typically order serers maybe
from HP Dell or IBM then back then and
this order usually takes five five
months sometimes six months or eight
months sometime I've also been on the
other end before now I've had to order
some h servers in my previous role and
this took a while four six months before
it arrived right and even after it
arrived you have to configure it
sometimes when you ordered it
application requirements would have
changed from the application team so it
wasn't flexible that's a point there was
a lot of delays to release application
but now with Cloud you can launch a
server at just a snap of finger click of
a button all those things we needed to
wait time there's no time you take to
just need to click on the type of server
you want windows or Linux or to Mac and
boom you get it if it doesn't meet your
your if after you started working on it
and doesn't meet your specification you
can easily just destroy it and launch
terminate it and launch a new one so the
cloud makes this um application
deployment server configuration much
faster I mean I dare say a 100 a th%
faster because remember looking at you
used to take six months before and now
you could do it within hours or within
seconds within minutes so that's that's
phenomenal
so Cloud just makes um running
applications working with servers
everything flexible and easy you pay as
you go instead of Maybe by ordering a
server for $25,000 or $10,000 in the
past you can just walk start running a
server you be paying per per minute and
you halfway through the Journey or one
hour through you discover that this
server is not meeting a specification
maybe doesn't have enough RAM or it's
not meeting your CPU requirements you
can you can upgrade it instead of
terminating you can just say okay
please help me AWS or Google or Azure
help me upgrade this this my my my my
cloud instance to a higher version where
I can have more CPU and in a twinken
over just part off CH make that change
and there you go so let's move on so
what are different types of cloud
professionals they are The Architects
those that will Design how the service
will integrate to each other right so
those those Architects do work first
before the operation guys the cloud
professionals now start doing it so
takes a while to move from operations to
architecture but um just know that
before you start any Cloud work Cloud
work Cloud project most times there will
be an architect that will have gone
through and try to synthesize and try to
look at what the application customer
requirements and try to architect how
the a couple of services together they
can use to achieve the objective right
so um then on the operational side now
we now have Engineers that will be
involved in three broad categories some
that will be in administration some that
will be in operations some that will be
handling security Securities Peri is
zero so I'll start with security so
remember no customer want to move it
data to the cloud or it service to the
cloud if it's not secure right so
security is priority zero and you should
treat treat that way so those of you
that might be confused why I'm using
zero so in computer lingo right I'm not
sure I know in mathematics in arithm you
start from one two three but in
computers computers actually start at
zero when they're counting so that's why
I say priority zero so when you hear me
saying security is priority zero it just
simply means that is number one it's the
first thing you get out of the way so
the cloud professionals that can be
working on security ensuring that
there's list privilege access
confidentiality Integrity authentication
is in place multiactor
authentication and also maybe may be
using identity provider like OCTA um to
integrate authenticate so that users
don't have multiple password so security
don't worry we'll talk about that then
the the operational guys the okay I want
to launch a new server I want to upgrade
a server I want to deploy this
application um I've written the code
help me deploy it so those are the
operations here they work closely with
the It software development team to
deploy then we have the administration
guys right those people administer they
they monitor they manage the environment
security patching things like patching
applying security patches Microsoft
releases it Amazon also releases some
patches monthly for Linux Dr Amazon
Linux dros those ones are rolling
updates that you need to ensure they
they to be able to meet some compliance
requirement especially if you're a
company like cap one or a bank or they
using processing money people's money or
Pro Pi data mind you back to security
there are penalties for leaks for pii
when pi is misused or mis handled in
Europe we have gdpr those of you that
are passionate about security can go and
read up about gdpr gdpr is like the
regulating um um is the body that
regulates how information is processed
and stored in any um in Europe on any
Cloud Server even Europeans um
information it might not even be in
Europe Sydney but if as long as European
data that you having there you have to
abide by the gdpr laws and the penalties
are heavy if you mishandle or if they
are leaks if your data leaks so you need
to be very careful there so
Administration setting up the system so
I just went from from right to left so
let's move on now so let's look at the
job market now Amazon CE CEO that's Andy
Jazzy usually say something that less
than 5% or about 5% of Enterprise it
workloads have been moved to the cloud
so this means that there's still a huge
chunk of um it spending that is not yet
in the cloud huge chunk of IT services
that have not been moved to the cloud so
just um just note that we are still in
the early days of the cloud cloud is not
saturated yet so everyone has a place um
for the next few years many companies
will still be migrating to the cloud and
Cloud now be become a def facto so this
is why a lot of operations Engineers are
needed around the world now devops
professional Cloud professionals to be
able to bridge that gap between
companies that migrating and compan that
just want to run the application already
in the cloud so we have some data
statistics here from um um some notable
companies that says that between 20 2022
and 2023 public cloud services grew by
22.9% year overy year with Revenue
reaching over 500 billion in 2022 that's
tell you the amount of the market sh is
a very very big market and according to
mckin the cloud Market is expected to
reach an estimated three trillion in
Revenue by 2030 so if you're able to
complete the the tradings and get
certifications out of the way you can
get the basics some skills mean 5 years
from now wo you have access to unlock
some significant value in the industry
so see this as an opportunity there's
opportunity in the market that's the
that's the that's the that's the
information that I want you to get from
this data so the surge of AI across
Industries a sharply increased the
demand for cloud professionals as I said
earlier who manage secure and optimize
Cloud environment to support these
Technologies so let dive into them now
about I have about 11 or 12 of them now
remember not every all companies will
have Cloud to Engineers Cloud develops
Engineers some might just have one Cloud
engineer doing all those things some
might if it's a big company like Netflix
or
Uber then you may have different but we
we in this slides we've just tried to
introduce that these are the different
types of cloud jobs that we have out
there it doesn't mean that you shouldn't
try to combine it or if you are hired as
a devops engineer you're not starting to
do many of those things you not be
wondering oh but I only came in as a
devops luk depending on the small
companies and this Advantage for small
comp small companies small team doing a
lot of things work but big companies
different teams different Engineers
doing specific things so see it there an
opportunity even if you have to do many
of those things in one maybe you're not
just doing one of those roles that we're
going to discuss today it's an
opportunity to learn as you grow your
career those these skills will be very
very helpful
so we're going to be just speaking on
Broad terms now Cloud support engineer a
csse like myself we help customers
resolve simple to complex issues with
cloud services by applying Advanced well
basic to advanc troubleshooting
techniques and deep technical expertise
the beauty of cloud support engineer is
that you can enter fresh that this entry
level you can come as a CSA straight
from school right without any experience
so you go through associate get training
and before you graduate with CSC CSC and
you begin to grow senior CSC and you
even might Branch out to become a
solution architect or Enterprise
architect so CS is like the ENT you can
enter as entry level just know that CSC
is in gr you can build some CSS that
entry level some Advanced some very very
senior some are 10 15 years um CSS right
um so they act as a bridge between users
or customers and cloud service providers
ensuring a simless experience for
customers and you can work in different
Industries you can you can work in techn
industry Finance e-commerce
telecommunications and we have companies
that that you can find these rules awss
Microsoft Google Cloud Oracle Google
Cloud C it's customer engineer it's the
same thing as a cloud support engineer
Oracle JY Bank MTN plotter wave and Jr
well this is not an exhaustive list as I
said but this gives you an idea of of of
of what they do let's move on um so to
be a CSC you need to have basic to
advance understanding of Cloud platforms
at least you know to know one Cloud
platform how integrate together how it
works together problem solving skills
communication skills and in the then
typical day in life customers will come
to you or your users come to you oh my
application is crashed my application is
failing my server crashed oh I want to
couple I want Design This generative AI
solution how can I integrate it oh I'm
trying to integrate this Lambda function
with this step function and it's failing
how can I integrate it to that can you
help me diagnose this error can you help
me develop a script to be able to
automate this this and that so I'm going
very technical now but those are kind of
queries that you be you be working with
as a CSC so any potential is quite large
you could be earning from well you can
see some figures there but these are not
100% full this gives you an idea of of
of the amount you earn right um career
trajectory Cloud support specialist that
is you can move from a CS to become a
cloud support specialist to become an
operations engineer to become a
Solutions aror let's move on so Cloud
architect yes Cloud architect is a
junior well Junior Cloud architect here
that helps design Cloud systems that
meet a company's needs so you Des you
decide which cloud services to use for a
specific use case right a specific
project or a job maybe you want to
design a ticketing application or you
want to design a generative application
and okay I want to use sageer Bedrock or
E2 where should I run how should I run
these models which of the models should
I use you you need you'll be applying a
lot of trade-offs here you'll be doing a
lot of tradeoffs and application
integration how the application how the
different cloud services integrate to
each other there are lot of Industries
where you can work Healthcare Finance
retail technology and companies that
usually have Cloud acted include Amazon
yeah IBM Google Cloud Microsoft Cisco
and the likes so let's look at the
skills that you need to have to become a
cloud architect so you need to have deep
understanding of cloud platforms basics
of cloud design and chitecture knowledge
of key cloud services computer storage
networking serverless and typically a
day in the life you be designing
cloud-based Solutions customers will
come to you oh I want to design a
payment solution I want to design or an
identity provider solution what kind of
servic should I use couple together the
developers are visting the code how
should they deploy it which kind of
service what tradeoff should they make
how can they optimize the cost so that
they still able to divide from value and
some they're able to break even over
time running on the cloud um working
with clients understand the needs
ensuring smooth integration of cloud
services to to run the application that
your customer is running you can see the
any potential potential rather is also
quite High um career trajectory you
could go from a cloud Junior Cloud
architect to a senior Cloud architect to
Enterprise architect to even to become
the
CTO right so let's move on who's the
cloud devops engineer a cloud devops
engineer makes sure software runs
efficiently in the cloud by automating
processes ensuring that the the release
the new versions are new updates are
released very well and even if you make
a release and it's bad many customers
are complaining like GT bank or many of
this you find that is bugging production
you quickly roll it back quickly to the
previous version so you manage release
process deployment integration of code
different versioning of the code that
developers have written so you also do a
lot of automation infrastructure as code
in this role so you you work closely
with the development and it teams to be
able to manage software release and
package management so you use a lot of
containerization here doing a lot of
Docker images and how to to manage those
images ensuring those images are meeting
your standard your application
requirements so places you can work
include Industries like technology
Finance e-commerce in fact this rule is
the most popular develops engineer role
and almost every industry now that is
moving to the cloud or using the cloud
in some way um requires you devops
Engineers so companies include AWS Azure
Google cloud and the likes Netflix and
the
likes so what are the skills that you
need to have to become a rockstar devops
engineer you need to have basic
knowledge of cloud platforms and basic
scripting understanding of C cicd
pipelines if you don't know what cicd is
don't worry it comes to the academy
you'll know what CD is if you go through
our our Academy and um you have
infrastructure to menion popular
infrastructure as code tools like
terraform anible cdk Cloud development
kits for Amazon and P
formation yeah what's a day in the
typical life of a devops engineer you
automate Cloud infrastructure setups for
example you have this application
currently running in London and you want
to replicate the same thing in Sydney
instead of having to provision
everything everything's already as code
you just spin it up using a cloud
formation template or terraform template
or anible or city can in a different
region and everything's up and running
just like a snap of a button um so the
career trajectory you could go from
Junior devops engineer to a senior
devops engineer to devops manager and
Cloud Solutions Architects and the ening
potential is also quite High trust me
and a lot of people in what are looking
for devops engineers like we can you can
exhaust them you can exhaust the rules
that available for devops engineers Sr
is I love this one this one has a very
very Sr the term Sr was invented by
Google and Google actually did a lot of
ping work in the era of cloud computing
and containerization with kubernetes so
those of you that don't know kubernetes
an orchestration Eng engine for Docker
sorry for containers and largely
developed by Google many many years ago
14 15 years ago now um s ensures Cloud
systems are highly available reliable
and they do a lot of automation they
automate a lot of operational tasks you
want to shut down this you want to
handle patch manone everything is
automated so Sr tries the goal of Sr is
to make sure you're automating most of
the operational tax ensuring the systems
are running reliably and highly
available the monitor performance yes
you ment a lot of advanced monitorings
availability into application and
infrastructure design scaling system so
exam customers come to you they're
currently running with 1,000 users they
want to go to 100,000 users they want to
ensure the system is able to handle that
traffic so you need to now look so the
SR Engineers would design the scaling
part element of that
application so place you can work a lot
e-commerce banking Healthcare technology
and Company they use that use Sr are
very all over almost every company I
know top Fortune 500 company I know uses
an S Sr One Way Sr doesn't only work
with a cloud this customer might your
customer might have the data on premises
but Sr is Sr anywhere either in the
cloud or in premises the same um um um
same role job scope so you need to have
deep understanding of cloud
infrastructure right um when turn you
need to very good with monitoring tools
like promethus
grafana knowledge of scripting language
and you need to be confortable writing
code in at least one language if it's
python you know you can develop python
applications web applications use
popular Frameworks this is Java you need
to know spring or at least one web
framework to able to develop at least um
some GUI and applications to monitor to
track
latencies reduce um um to manage your
applications or infrastructures code
so a typical day in the life of an Sr
you're automating a away you're finding
operational tax to automate a way so
you're monitoring system performance and
getting proper
alerting and ensuring automatic recovery
from failures for example when you
connect to your laptop to the internet
the first thing most most of us is to go
to google.com to Ure that there's
internet right U so Google has developed
that that reputation that they always
available so it's the SR teams that have
that made that possible that they
regardless if they have maintenance or
anything Google is you always know that
at least when you go to google.com or go
to Cod UK you should get a respon so
that's phenomenal hat off to the Google
Sr teams so ensuring systems are
reliable and skillable so the en
potential is quite High about the
highest one of the highest let me say
the highest and career trajectory you
could go from the senior SR to lead Sr
to engineering director or even the
CTO let's move on cloud this ad me yeah
these are people that do a lot of os
management um urance is available if it
crashes how to recover from
crashes um provisioning monitoring and
patching right lot of companies that you
can work for and the industries almost
every industry requires a a systems
administrator in one way or the other
but let's go to the skills that you need
to have you need to have Cloud
management skills maybe AWS asual Google
need to know networking at least medium
to Advanced networking knowledge Linux
or W and windows medium to advance so
the cloud systems Administration is very
very similar to the power engineer role
well most of the information here you
need to also have it in CSC role so as a
cloud admin to me same thing as a cloud
support engineering because you need to
know Linux Windows Administration your
network has solid and you also need to
know infrastructure as code tools and
devops typically devops tools so you can
troubleshoot something to or to um
figure out what's wrong you need to know
have deep understanding of system so s
means do a lot of os
work so what's the day in the life of a
s mean you manage Cloud resources ensure
the system is up if it's Crash you need
to figure out why is it crashing is a
driver ensures that the drivers are
released safely try to make sure it
doesn't happen again um handling backups
and security configuration things like
that um career trajectory means you
could go from a senior assist admin to
from a junior admin to a senior admin to
a cloud operations manager to Cloud
architect all the way up the the chain
and you can see the ending potential is
also very high six Cloud security
analyst I know a lot of people on the on
the C security enthus so cyber security
yeah this one is for you so this this
other rule also has other varations you
could hear setups de setups everything
is just Security operation security
analyst a security analyst could be a
setups SEC Ops starts for security
operations engine so setups for short or
Dev setups development security
operations so when you hear setups Dev
seup as I see I put on on the slide here
just know that he also referring to the
security analyst role see security
analyst protects the cloud from hackers
security threats and ensures that users
are implementing are working
authenticating the right people have the
right access the right people have the
right access and authentic what does
that mean it means that's thats the
principle of least privilege so it's
only users that need to do something
that should have that you shouldn't have
all the permission don't give him
administrator access because you just
want see simp you should only have
specific per permissions to be able to
do specific um job that you need him to
deliver so security analyst setups Dev
setups Engineers the monitor for any
security issues implements principle of
list privilege and security
configurations develop and assign
permissions a lot of policies you do a
lot of polic policies development policy
audits ensuring that only users have
zero trust implementing principle of
zero trust security configuration so a
lot of security work is done by the
security
analyst place you can work every
industry because everyone wants to be
secured Healthcare especially because
when you're dealing with people's data
private data you need to be very secured
right unless you run risk of penalties
gdpr and nist for America finance
government technology companies include
almost every company because um security
security is in priority zero right
that's what I called it in my intro so
you need to have security tools you need
knowledge of security tools like
firewalls VPN cryptography SSL
certificate management encryption chist
encryption asymmetric encryption
symmetric encryption wor security
analysts Enthusiast will know what
understand what I'm saying but if you're
if you're keen on security in the cloud
then uh you need to look at what these
terms and understand what they do maybe
take some security trainings as
well um you need to understand Cloud
platform security how to implement
police privileg um access on the cloud
monitoring for threats and
vulnerabilities and a typical day in the
life of a of a security analyst you
monitor Cloud environment for threats
maybe using automated Solutions maybe
next Generation firewall maybe 40 gate
or Palo Auto or you just been doing some
security monitoring you want to be
insect expecting your packets ensuring
that the right packets are going through
your systems implementing security
measures to defend guard Duty dos
protection um um SQL injection
protection for applications things like
that you also investigate and respond to
incidents you develop and assign
permissions you developing policies a
lot You' doing a lot of policy
development will know this very well
because she was also um she's been a
cups engineer in the in the previous
role um and from the career trajectory
you could move from a security engineer
to Cloud security lead to cyber security
manager to CTO security trust me is
paying is one of the hot hottest paying
jobs you you guys can understand it in
fact security maybe pays higher so those
of you are passionate about money right
but everyone wants to live a comfortable
life be able to take care of family so
if you really Ken on money right trust
me security pays a lot because security
is priority Z so if you can take time to
learn all these things trust me you
could be you could be smiling to the
bank people just wonder why he's smiling
oh yeah he's smiling he's always smiling
yeah he's a security engineer okay now
say let's move
on cloud data engineer so we're in the
era of data data generative AI if if you
don't know the generative AI is was
trained by terabytes of data like data
that can't sit on your laptop or sit on
any server that you can imagine it has
to you have to put it on on a collection
of servers as high performance servers
in a cluster before you can see that
data so um data those data professionals
are now in demand because data
engineering is very relevant in
the
sorry very relevant in the AI era which
we are now generative AI
era so the cloud data engineer manages
data in the cloud the make sure data is
stored safely processed efficiently and
securely
and available for
analysis and you can work in Industries
like media e-commerce banking
technology um place like Netflix Open AI
any anybody that is doing AI will need
some data engineer in switch payack
Amazon these are all companies that
require data
Engineers what are the skills that you
need to have understanding of cloud data
services wss3 red shift Ado basics of
data pipelines and data manipulation
tools like SQL pie torch numpy and the
likes a day in the life of a data
engineer you're building a managing
cloudbased data set systems using S3
object Orient object system block data
optimizing data storage and access uring
data is secure that's number one and
what's the career trajectory like you
could move from a senior data from data
engineer to a senior data engineer role
to a data architect to a chief data
officer that's a sweet
and you can see the ending potential is
also very
high Cloud automation is very similar to
CR Sr so as I put here so just look at
Cloud automation is just like a trim
down version of the SR you you just be
focusing on automation right so anything
they want to do you want to stop instan
start instan launch a thousands or 100
thousands of servers you're trying to
automate that and make sure it doesn't
fail you're responsible for creating and
managing automated workflows and
processes in power environment so you
just reduce manual work trying to
automate most of the manual o and many
time you are releasing an application
you need to click on this button you
want to automate instead of clicking on
that button how can you do this in code
with terraform or with Lambda or with
python with any scripting language of
your choice you can see you can work in
a lot of places and you need to have
some of the skills that you need to have
very similar to the SR deep knowledge of
cloud platforms scripting knowledge in
at least one language maybe python bash
or an automation tools like terraform
anible Jenkins are very very necessary
so a day in the life of of an Cloud
automation engineer you're automating
Cloud infrastructure deployment writing
script to reduce manual tasks and urance
systems can skill without having to do
some manual
remediations and what's the career
trajectory like so you could go from a
senior automation from an automation
engineer to a senior automation engineer
to develops lead Cloud operations
director up the way to se Suite we're
almost done so cloud product manager you
could be helping to work on product
launches so trust me a lot of work goes
into product management that may not be
visible to the eye just know that these
are people that are not exactly coding
or touching systems but actually
involved in more product management
project management of the release of a
particular service or application so
they help plan launch cloudbased
products they work with developers and
designers to ensure the product meets
customer needs and is successful in the
market to the of market research ensure
that the product is a is a perfect fit
for the customers they're trying to
Market it to place you work includes a
lot of places
and um you can see there a lot of people
almost many companies that that require
that use cloud systems to have product
managers right and you need to have
basic understanding of cloud
Technologies the skills that you need to
have now project management is big one
for product product managers ability to
communicate with Technical and nonch
technal teams problem solving the ear
potential is also quite
high and typical day in the life of a
product manager you you work with
product development teams you work with
Engineers to deliver features you
prioritize customer needs aligning with
products and business goals in a career
trajectory you could go from a product
manager Junior to a senior product
manager head of products VP of product
up up the chain up to C sweet Cloud
network engineer yeah like this ones
this ones um the network Engineers
designs maybe hybrid want connect Hy or
AWS to on Prem how can we connect the
networks together do you use Direct
Connect or side to side vpns n PLS
traffic how do you ensure maybe traffic
is one way transitive nontransitive
connections or your active directory how
can you make sure that you have just one
active director or distribute domain
controllers across different Cloud
providers so nare Engineers help you
divine complex Network infrastructure or
simple to complex Network infrastructure
such that everyone everything is
interconnect you can you can get data
from your database everything can go
smoothly so they ensure data can flow
smoothly and securely across the cloud
across different applications different
regions in a smooth and and secure
flexible way and you can see the
different Industries where you can work
so you need to have very solid
understanding of networking like rooting
switching um OSI model out to
troubleshoot basics of power Wars
network
security um firewall management
especially Cloud platform knowledge and
a typical day in life of a network
engineer you design and manage Cloud
systems ensuring secure and efficient
network connectivity you TR network
issues right some users can connect to
this database some can connect why is my
database connection
failing what VPN access do I need I'm
connected to VPN I can't still access
some resources can you allow some ports
for me yeah you'll be doing a lot of
Port man you can also automate this so
Cloud Network Engineers also do some
automation at the back end to automates
many of these manual attacks I want to I
need this sport I need to be able to
download this and give me access you
won't be manually going to give access
you'll be doing that in an automated
fashion so from cloud network engineer
you could move to senior Cloud network
engineer Cloud infrastructure engineer
Network and the last one but not least
well okay we still have two to go so
there's also Cloud migration specialist
so this this person just helps you do
migration many companies are in the
middle of migrations now or some have
just migrated maybe some are still going
to migrate a lot some of most of the
application eventually the cloud
to a cloud of migration specialist help
businesses securely move data and
applications from traditional system
Legacy systems like Mainframe super
computers that you put on on Prime to
the cloud so they ensure the migration
happen smoothly and securely without
losing data in fact you may have a
database that is running on Prem and you
want migr that dat basally cloud in such
a way that they they can't be you don't
even have 10 minutes for that cut over
the day that you cut over so you need to
be need to be active active replication
has to be happening so the lot of things
they migration Specialists are required
knowing how to Stage how to Stage the
migrations in waves maybe we'll move the
database systems first and we move some
web tier some front end so different
different um plans goes in
here so what are the skills that
required from cloud migration special
specialist knowledge of cloud platform
experience with Cloud migration tools
like migration Hub mg application
migration service DRS Disaster Recovery
Service asual migrates and knowledge of
project management and risk assessment
it's also necessary in the cloud
migration
role right so a day in the life of a
cloud migration specialist you plan and
execute migration of on premises systems
to the cloud or it might not be on
premises alone may be from maybe you
want to move from Google Cloud to Amazon
cloud or from Azure Cloud to Amazon
Cloud right so how to move from between
Cloud platform not to migrate away from
One Cloud platform to the
other ensuring minimal time downtime and
risk management and troubleshooting of
migration issues right so let's move on
Career trajectory could go from a cloud
migration specialist to a senior Cloud
migration specialist to Cloud architect
to CTO so that's the um and the last one
not least is the platform
engineer a platform engineer builds and
maintains the infrastructure that allows
developers to deploy applications
quickly in the cloud so think of
infrastructure or maybe I have this
application I want to run I have
everything already set up but I just
need the platform the infrastructure the
servers or a collection of the network
layout already
done the servers already already
provision for me to deploy my
application so the make sure everything
is stable and secure for development
process so so the platform Engineers
will make sure that the platform the
infrastructure that your code will be
running on is already developed before
the the devops engineers release their
code to the platform so you can see the
industries where you can work there
almost every industry I know well
require some platform as I said develops
engineer might actually be doing some
job work for of of a platform engineer
so just when you see those platform
engine rules May on LinkedIn or indeed
on J these are the kind of things that
they will be doing not that oh if I
don't see platform engineer no I can do
you could be a devops engineer and also
be doing some some job the work of a
platform engineer or be doing all these
things yes so companies are small that
Nimo can afford a lot large team so you
have to be able to deliver on multiple
faets so you need to have deep knowledge
of cloud platforms knowledge of
containerization the popular
infrastructure that customers use ECS
elastic container service kubernetes
elastic kubernetes service how to
orchestrate containers in a secure and a
skillable fashion typical da live
platform engineer You're Building Cloud
platforms automation automating
infrastructure in deploying cloud
services ensuring scalability and the
career trajectory could go from platform
engineer to senior platform engineer to
platform lead and then Cloud architect
Enterprise architect up all the way to
um to become a c s
executive right you can see the ending
potential is also very very large so how
do you get your first role you you need
to First learn the basics that's why we
have a training an
academy um that the coort they can join
where you would take it from Novis to to
um to at least you be able to work in as
a professional to a cloud professional
so you learn how to use at least one
Cloud platform it's AWS Azure Google
Cloud many of these rules the on some of
them specify some would give AWS asual
good Cloud so they expect to at least
know one perform solid because most of
them is just the same implementation
just the names of the services are
different the same implementation mostly
across board but Amazon just has more
services what 200 Services others have
less so you need to know infrastructure
as how to codify many of these Cloud
operations that you do on the on the
console you also Master relevant devops
tools like antio
terap and Jenkins and the likes so how
how can you do that you can volunteer do
internship you on write to companies
startups that you know that you just
want to volunteer to run their Cloud
operations and join the team so you can
see real life What It Takes how how they
how they put fires maybe release
application is crashing people's money
are St out to quickly roll back you need
to get some experience releasing
applications to that distributed working
with distribute applications Le by
practicing do projects and put it on
your GitHub build up your GitHub
portfolio and also Network connect with
mentors attend webinars like this use
your LinkedIn go for events and you
gradually you build your your your
network
so um I'm going to let uh my colleague
take it from here um don't worry we
still have a panel discussion where we
can take questions you they you have so
but this just the first part of the um
the webinar and thank you so far for
being with me and for listening
thank you so much Charles for such a PR
really good session very detailed hello
everyone um thank you all for still
being here for paying attention for
listening we are now going to go into
the questions I know that I haven't
heard all of that some of you have all
sorts of questions and that's exactly
why we're here you know today I have
with me Charles and I J like these are
top Cloud professionals these are some
of the finest in the industry so we're
here for you we're here to answer all
your questions so but I want you to know
that every single thing that child spoke
about we don't expect that you
understand the Integrity of what
networking is of what protocols are of
what all of this are that's why there is
opportunity for you to learn from
scratch and grow and that's exactly what
we do at Cloud booster so if you have
any questions about what you've heard
whether you've heard about about Cloud
before or you don't know anything about
Cloud we're here for you we don't expect
that you have any background in
technology at all right we have people
who have worked with us that have
transitioned from nursing into cloud
computing from English Linguistics all
sorts of backgrounds into cloud
computing so we just want people that
are passionate ready and we know that of
course for you to go on that Journey you
would have questions one of the
recommendations that Charles just gave
was you know speak to people in the
industry have mentors and that's why
we're here so we want you to be free
want it to be open you know um use the
slido link ask your questions and we
will take it off from there so I'm going
to be taking all your questions one
after the other I'll group similar ones
of course we expect that there'll be
similar questions but today um I'm going
to be working with a panel um of course
you guys have interacted with Char
already so let's have Charles on board
as well on the spotlight thank you for
that beautiful session and of course we
have AA at suchu as
well um on the call so it's going to be
three of
um answering all your questions and
myself so I want each of them to
introduce themselves I know Charles has
given you a hint into what he does just
30 seconds you know um you know what's
your role and exactly what do you do and
I as well and I'll introduce myself and
then we'll take your question so Charles
over back to you just 30 seconds
introduction okay so um so I'm sure most
of you heard it when um e introduced me
earlier but I'm Cloud support engineer
here AWS I work with a lot of customers
Global customers help them resolve
fairly simple to complex Enterprise um
Enterprise architecture architectural
problems op personal problems or even if
they want to build guidance on building
the Next Generation application um also
within a team where I work with
customers to streamline their Cloud
operations so I work a lot of cloud
operations customers want to automate
how to manage many customers have
several AWS accounts how to manage it
manage it in an organization ational
formats and showing that they deploy
applications across similar state to
multiple applications yeah I also I also
do a lot of work on that side I'm also a
subject matter expert for some aw
services like systems manager so
anything systems manager patch
management um um automation yeah that's
my that's my baby that's where I I
handle escalations for that so that's
just a little about what I do in the
cloud thank you Charles so Charles Works
in AWS Amazon web
themselves he works with them so you can
imagine his wealth of knowledge in this
space I please over to
you hi everyone so I'm j e IG for short
and um I work in BP not like Char I work
with the the customers directly of AWS
and I work as an Enterprise security
architect so I'm in cyber security but I
did start out with Cloud security and
now I'm doing more deaths offs and apis
and application security also some
container security as well so I've kind
of gone around the space of cloud to
like the devup side and all but yeah I
work more my day today is more like
meeting with the finding a like this
designing and recommending strong design
patterns for certain cloud services like
our container security our def SEC of
space our apis and our absc
generally thank you so much J thank you
and just similar to Charles and J uh you
know I'm also a cloud DeVos professional
my name is Gim Sol Jo founder of tuster
Academy um I also have my night to5 I
work with PWC as a cloud um devops
architect right so um within my 9 to5 in
Consulting I basically help convince a
lot of organizations to move their
systems to the cloud and of course when
they need to do those migrations
basically just leading on that building
Cloud teams helping organizations to
move their systems to the cloud of
course before we even get there there's
a lot of sales that goes on convincing
them about the benefits of the cloud and
all of that of course previously I've
worked in um Accenture myself and I have
worked together in Accenture we I've
also worked in Capital One where we're
doing a lot of hands on actually
building those solutions back in on the
cloud as a cloud develops engineer and
using a lot of tools that you guys have
heard about today so we're all very
hands of been in the industry for over
half a decade and we're here for you so
I'll just go right into the questions
okay so um the first question and of
course everyone on the call these are
your um instructors and Cloud Boer these
are people that will be teaching you the
cloud devs Concepts should do a role in
the training so you have um you're in
safe hands so now um someone is
asking um you know can you talk us
through how someone like me with no Tech
background or network I've just
completed the training how do you help
me secure a job I've just completed a
training did you complete I don't
believe that You' I don't identify the
name so perhaps you've completed the
training how do you help me secure a job
how do you help with interviews right
and of course some people are asking
questions about the cost Cloud booster
cost what is it all about um some people
are asking what are the steps and how
long will the T training take you know
some of you are asking what is the cost
of the training hello please does the
trading fee cover AWS last subscription
or are we to pay for that separately um
you know some people are asking
specifically about the training and I'm
just going to take question about
training I'll actually talk more about
the train how much is the train and how
long will the training be all the
questions to train I'll take it at the
end right but one thing I'll just say to
you is that broad overview what we do at
Cloud booster is that we take you from
zero into Cloud you don't need any
background in technology and we know
that you need more than technical skills
to actually be a competent Cloud DeVos
professional so we don't just train you
because someone said I just finished
training what do I do next we don't just
train and then leave you right so we
train you we give you um it's virtual
live classes every Saturday you get to
as we're teaching you theoretical
concept we teach you the Practical
aspect of it so you have a well-rounded
training for an 18 weeks period it's
virtual life classes you can be anywhere
in the world you join the training on a
zoom call every Saturday 9:00 a.m. to
about 5:00 p.m. BST every Saturday and
of course you're working You're Building
Solutions on the cloud and you're also
building your portfolio so by the end of
the training or during the course of
training will start telling you about
how you can use your skills to apply for
job opportunities globally so you're
putting together we teach you how to put
together your CV we teach you how to put
together your linked profile how to do
interviews we give you interview
simulation sessions as well oneon-one we
test you just to ensure that your job
ready and of course we deploy you into
you know the job market so that's really
what training is about and it's for
everybody so I hope that guides in terms
of Road Mar so someone is say from a
cloud Architects perspective what is the
largest scope of work when migrating
workloads from on premise to the cloud
um I don't know if Charles wants to take
that question uh you know what's the
largest I find it an interesting
question but yeah someone is asking what
what's the largest scope of work when
migrating workloads from on premised to
the
cloud good question so um largest scope
of work when migrating workload well
many customers have trust me a lot of
data centers around the world um and a
lot applications that have different
moving components so an application
typically is not just on a laptop on a
server it might be on different multiple
servers right scattered across different
en some data might be resized in in sap
might be in S3 might even be in
different gr plot so firstly many
customers don't even know where all this
data are so you need to First analyze
where are the data the data that is used
all the components of this trust me many
of those applications are are released
before many of those users join the
companies so not every company has a
full full scope full picture big picture
of where the data is that applications
they using dayto day are running they
know the operational work but you need
to first look at it holistically we are
all the moving parts and developing that
could be the lot of tools Discovery
agents they can use to to quickly get up
that AWS other Cloud providers have but
firstly developing that holistic view we
have all the data recited that need to
be moved to the cloud and how do we need
to how do we stage manager now might
think it's easy like okay move database
there may be some dependencies there
some leg that this this application
depends on another one depends on
another one so you need to stagger them
okay which one is the root that if we
move this one first other applications
won't fail so wave management how to
deploy migrate applications or migrate
migrate your your data in waves it's a
very very very very very tricky one and
also risk assessments now during
migration some data might get corrupted
how do we ensure that okay there's a
there's a disaster for Disaster Recovery
how do we make sure that okay if
migrating we eventually to the cloud
eventually find out that data is
corrupted how do we quickly fall back on
premise so we don't lose money how do so
it's called risk management so you this
is also another critical part of
migration project so the lot of um it's
I can't pin which one will be the
largest now but I hope this just a
handful of areas that you consider and
you can give yourself determine okay
which one would actually be a a a a big
part of it for you but these are just
different this is not an exhaustive list
trust me migration job in fact it'll be
we have partners that help with
migration migration is not as simple as
just copying the application code and
moving into the cloud a lot of res
investment project management wave
management that goes into is dependency
management to remember many companies
like big companies have multiple
dependencies that they themselves don't
even know so it's your job to help them
figure out okay well how the
applications link together and help them
to migrate um Sim Lance into the cloud
well I've worked with a lot of
Enterprise customers many times after
migrating it crashed it will become
corrupted if de commination the pr
server how can they proceed so this is
where the class have been class for
engineers now I have to sweat to try to
find ways work around to just bring back
the application so that they don't lose
money so that's why you need to make
sure that the cloud the migration is
solid your migration when you do your
business case for application your
project plan is solid so that you make
to get against such issues sorry I spoke
I'm very passionate about Cloud so I
think I took too long maybe totally
fine it's totally fine thank you so much
Charles someone is asking um please how
can I get to Charles I want Charles to
be a mentor so we're going to put link
to his LinkedIn profile in the chat box
so take advantage of that so the next
question I would like to take is which
products are ideal thank you so much for
your um response to that um child very
um very extensive um someone is this
question will be for IG which projects
are ideal for a beginner to implement in
order to stand out in front of a hiring
manager right and you can just use that
to also touch on anything that can help
any advice you have for somebody who has
no Tech background because most people
are saying what's my road map how do I
go from exactly where I am now to
getting hired so what are the you know
what projects can they work on what can
anyone do if they need to move from
where they are right now to actually
becoming a cloud developed
engineer thanks wiy for that I would say
that um if you have no idea on cloud if
you're coming from a non- te background
um my my recommendation most times is to
try and join a program that would help
you because the thing is that you can
just get so overwhelmed with doing a lot
of things and you're Miss you're just
doing a lot of things that just don't
you know Target to anything I always
actually recommend Cloud booster to
people personally not because I'm a
trainer but because I know that if you
don't have a direction and a clear part
of oh this is where I'm going to next
you're going to do a lot of things and
at the end you'll just be like so
overwhelmed and have nothing you've done
you know it's almost like software
engineering but software Eng is a bit
better because you can just get an
application and write up a code and you
know post it on GitHub and you know
deploy it somewhere and you know can
come with that for cloud it tends to be
a lot more like you need to know where
you want to end up in so that you can
when you're writing when you're kind of
going on any projects you're like okay
I'm going to write I'm going to learn
this I'm going to start write want to go
towards container okay I want to be a
container engineer Cloud that's part of
the cloud engineer but kind of more
container specific I'm going to Lear
this and write this kind of stuff and
get this deployed or if you just want to
be a normal like you know admin kind of
engineer you know there are different
part so my advice on that don't have a
like nothing you're just coming from a
non-tech background I would say do a
program learning whether you join Cloud
booster or I always say join Cloud boost
it's at least more mentored and more
tailored right but if you you know
you're from coming from a tech
background you already have idea on Tech
and you just want to kind of like play
around and get stuffs in then of course
you can always like this um this um um
Cloud This Cloud platforms give you free
credits to start out with so you can
always go on any of this Udi courses CU
there are some of them are free and you
can just pick up like one course and
then just walk through what they are
doing and you know get some of their you
know they're doing some scalability
stuff you do it they're doing database
MySQL you know um that do lamp stack you
do it on cloud you know you can always
do stuff on your own in Cloud without
having as much Direction but if you're
coming from non Tech zero idea I would
say join a TA program you probably get
better in terms of where you're going to
than just doing any random stuff Tech is
a very information heavy place so you
can get very overwhelmed with a lot of
stuff right so I'll take it easy if
you're coming from non Tech I'll say
join something that is more tailored if
you're coming from already and you have
an idea or say utilize the cloud
platforms because they give free credits
take some CES on whether it's UD even
YouTube even just picking up like oh I
want to just do a lamb stack on you know
on on AWS and you could just start out
with that and actually end up like you
know deploying something and when you go
for an interview can you don't just
write on your CV you know deployed in my
you know spare my SP time I deployed as
a project I deploy this application as a
project and these things are quite easy
to to spin up and run right so I would
say it depends on your path I would just
say don't go about doing 101 things at
the end where does it tie into you know
so that would be my own contribution to
that
b thank you so so much J thank you and I
hope that has answered your question
please I hope everyone can still hear me
I
think um question please um you could
just send me a DM to conf so you can
hear
me okay good thank you thought it was
breaking all right thank you for
confirming okay thank you so much J very
very solid so um people are asking about
you know I have a question here my
question is will I be able to get a good
job I'm in my 50s and I'll be Crossing
um from marketing and sales with over 20
years experience um I want to combine
that with other questions as well
someone else is asking what is my road
map to becoming a cloud finops engineer
um and then people are saying that
someone is asking um how can a cyber
security graduate end up learning cloud
in the future right um as a new be what
is the first certification to go for
like is it a practitioner certification
or should I go for associatees you know
um someone is saying that do you need to
have a knowledge of coding or
programming language to be a cloud
security um architect or a CSC um
someone is saying that this sounds like
a very good career part what are the
challenges and perhaps some of the
pitfalls of being uh Cloud engineer I
know why I'm combining it don't worry
we'll take we'll answer it I just want
to make sure that answers are touching
on everything together and we don't take
too much time someone is saying that can
you take us through how someone like me
with no Tech background um you know how
do I get into Tech okay we're taking
that question already which of this
roles do I need zero coding or
programming language or knowledge to do
okay um and then someone is saying that
for someone who is just transitioning
with no previous experience what job
Road do you recommend I start with i
person ask you what is my journey to
become a cloud network engineer so what
I see um as a common theme through these
questions is people still want to know
what that pathway looks like right
somebody is saying that I want to become
a cloud phixs um I want to become a
cloud security I want to become a cloud
network engineer and you know how do I
go on that journey and what I would say
is that similarly to what everyone has
said um you know without repeating
ourselves multiple times you need people
to hold your hands on that Journey right
you you don't want to go on that Journey
alone you need to build your technical
expertise you want to become a cloud if
you are currently in security you can
definitely go into Cloud I mean I just
started in security before she went into
Cloud right so we have people with that
experience so the fact that you know
security is really good you can layer
Cloud on top of that going into devups
as well devups is Dev devops and there
with security um right at the center of
it so regardless of where you are right
now you want to go from where you are
into landing that exciting job whether
as a cloud network engineer or is a
cloud devops engineer or is a cloud fups
engineer you need to build a technical
expertise in fact someone is saying that
I saw a question I said oh how do I
combine all of this multiple things that
you guys are Spen about because we
talked about different different um
career fields in Cloud again my answer
to that is you need to build your
technical expertise don't think of
specializing right at at the beginning
you want to learn all the cloud Concepts
you want to learn all the devops concept
and then as you go along you will find
out which areas are really of more
interest to you and you also have to
look at what is in the market so you're
constantly gauging your skill set what
you like and what is in the market right
and what we found in industry and of
course Charles and I will say as well
what we found in industry is that
sometimes you even get hired and they
call you a particular name oh you're
cloud data engineer for example and you
end up doing Cloud devops engineering
you end up doing platform you end up
doing architecture you know so you know
you don't want to be limited that oh let
me choose something now we're just
showing you what is possible the various
possibilities so you just need to expose
yourself to these tools to Cloud to um
you know different devil tools that that
mentioned someone that saying that oh
which one does not involve programming
my question is why you running away from
programming you know you're running away
from programming because you think it's
difficult but it's not that's what we do
at Cloud we take it from zero right
where you are right now someone is
saying I'm a product manager how do I
transition you don't need to I mean
don't you don't need to run away from
programming right because you can learn
it from scratch you can understand it
you need a bit of programming as a cloud
devop engineer it will help you but it's
not difficult it's not difficult it's
something you can learn from scratch we
teach you python you know so and the
more rare your skills are the more
difficult it is or the more technical
your skills are the harder it is to
replace you so you want to position your
career in such a way that you have
skills that people are running away from
and if you have it it means that
recruiters are going to run towards you
because you have the skills that people
need okay so I want to um throw the
question open about the pitfall some
people are saying oh I'm sure the person
is like oh you guys are just talking
about the good sides you know beautiful
things about Cloud what are the pitfalls
what are the challenges so I'll give IG
an opportunity to answer that question
of you know and then the next question
for child will be what's different
between Cloud someone is asking what's
different between Cloud architecture and
you know Cloud devops you know what's
the difference between that Charles can
answer that after but I I want you to
talk about the pit for someone is saying
what's the pit for what are the
challenges don't just tell us the good
things tell us the challenges as
well say it's a pitfall I'll say it's a
strong Challenge and it's for every Tech
right you need to be up to date you need
to really be on it Tech is not a place
where you get one thing so I learned
this two years ago so I'm here you're
going to really go back quickly so I
mean for anyone that every time people
say oh you know you're in Tech you're in
SEC you're any money even the child said
you're any money you know it's not as
much as any money now is as much as you
have to remain up to date for you to
keep being valuable right now we're
having a lot of AI so you can't just
like oh sorry I only know Cloud it's all
I do in life no you're going to have to
keep up like you have to you know
certifications are things you must you
know keep up you know updating your
knowledge keep up being relevant like
you can't just sit on your Laurel so I
w't say it's a pitfall as much as it's a
challenge so Tech is not for the lazy
hearted I know it's Tech have the money
just for the lazy hearted so you have to
be up and up and you know you have to
plan in yourself okay this is what's
coming up I need to go and learn it I
need to understand at least I need to
understand what the basic is on it right
I can't run away from new new things and
say this is all I know I just do Cloud
devops this is all I know terraform is
what I've been KN you something else
comes up newly you need to like jump on
it and understand it at least you may
don't know it like an exp but you should
be able to be open to learning so
actually that's one of the strongest
things you must have as a tech person is
that um you know willingness to learn
ability to learn actually something that
is more looked out for in an interview
than even all your sometimes your your
heart your heart skills your experiences
that can the person want to learn things
quickly that's Tech really you know so
yeah I'll say that absolutely spot on
thank you so much um Charles can you um
guide us on the difference I want to say
what's differ between Cloud develops
Cloud architect and Cloud engineering
and if you can also touch on what
certification should people get started
with because you have a lot of
certifications so you can talk us on
that J as well yeah so a cloud architect
doesn't do a lot of ant on sorry it
doesn't touch systems to maybe use
terraform to deploy it for the customer
or using terap to remediate something or
to change something to flip a feature
flag or to release a feature right so a
cloud architect actually takes the
business requirements maybe you want to
build our own generative air maybe
Stanford says okay in of custom engineer
or our our prospective applicant come to
a website to see okay when is the
application starting or when is the
application ending for this cycle okay
put all that into a model such as an
agent an AI model an AI agent they can
just ask the AI agent when is Stanford's
application closing right it's very
difficult to search websites for that
information you have to click two three
buttons find okay what are the
requirements to join an gradate program
so a Solutions architect would take that
problem look at different moving parts
and try develop an architecture
algorithm synthesize those service
together make trade-offs maybe there are
10 things that can do that job and now
try to find the most cost effective and
that will be able to work for the
customer the customers will be able to
manage not all customers are very good
at managing they may have small teams
that they can't manage so it's your job
as an architect okay which service can
they use that they can easily ramp up
that won't take them a lot remove a lot
of I've been sure about so Architects
that can overarch and looks at the big
picture takes the business requirement
and try to drop like a workable solution
to to De to to deploy it or to to
deliver that particular business outcome
that a customer wants so it's a sales
role you're taking requirement from
business and trying to translate into a
network or an architect technical
architecture that the devops engineers
will now or developers will run with to
deploy right so that's
architecture um so devops um Cloud
engineer or devops engineer okay Works
closely with the developers now when
they want to release a new code you help
them to manage the pack package package
that code and help them to release it
safely roll it back when necessary and
also automate dual infrastructure as
code such that the application the
release of the application is automated
it's not manual you're not copying the
code the new code and go and drop it so
you can easily roll back you have a lot
monitoring in place be able to track
that development or roll back love
alarms in place love alerting as well so
that's the develops part cicd
application deployment release
management it's a heavy part of the
infrastructure code is heavy part of
devops engineer role the last one is
cloud engineer Cloud engineer is
holistic can be any um CL Cloud engineer
might be a devops engineer so Cloud
engineer is like a broad term so
companies like Fujitsu Fujitsu UK I know
they have a lot of cloud Engineers KPMG
KPMG has a lot of cloud Engineers if you
just look at them use it was also on our
slides here so different companies have
different terminologies but you might be
doing the same Cloud doing everything
devops engineer is doing plus Cloud
architects
companies small companies if I'm doing a
startup I only have one maybe Cloud
engineer in my team I don't want to have
devop setup Network you do everything
and that worked for me because when I
was my previous was a small company uh
or smaller teams so I was doing
networking doing a Ser Administration do
so that gave me a lot of when I'm on
calls working with lot of global
customers and I'm working with multiple
teams is it to relate and to send size
those information so as a bad team when
you're doing a lot of jing a lot of
things together as a cloud engineer
generalist yeah I called myself a cloud
engineer generalist because you need to
know how everything fits into each other
nicely I think those were the three that
menion if I miss anyone let me know yeah
that's correct and what certifications
should people do at the beginning of
their career good so if you're novice I
recommend you start with Cloud
practitioner right but if you're already
Advan you're working with it you might
want to go straight into Solutions
architect now if you want to go into the
architect role to be from Solutions
architect associate to Solutions
architect um um professional your
knowledge shouldn't stop there you might
want to do some Advanced speciality
courses security specialist machine
learning because as a Solutions
architect professional you expected to
be professional that this hot
reverberating on all standards so you
should know some Advanced Network and
advanced security so nearly never ends
certification never say ah once you get
the professional H I'm made there's no
doesn't work that you keep playing
Amazon keeps releasing new we release
one AI set I'm also trying to see how I
can prepare for that AI set now so if
you want to go the architect route
that's the that's the angle trajectory
you take now if you want to go the um
develops engineer route so you start if
you're novice start with a cloud infr
cloud um practitioner then from cloud
practitioner you can go to um Cloud
Associates well Cloud developer
Associates now after Cloud developer
Associates I'll will challenge you to
also go for the at least the solutions
architect associate so you at least know
most multiple service not just develop
Serv like dynamodb Sous Services after
um um Solutions architect associate you
can now go for devops engineer
professional devops engineer
professional is a very pretty
challenging exam and is usually is the
one of the highest certification
professional certification with devops
engineer so but in the Stream round
version will be Cloud practitioner Cloud
developer associate Cloud devops
engineer professional but I say you
knowledge don't stop there you can still
Branch out to do operations if you're
working as a generalist as a develop Eng
not just doing developer service you
benefit from doing all these others you
can even do all the 12 set or the 13
sets now and get your golden jacket so
Nothing Stops you um learning never ends
in the world of technology thank you so
much Charles um and um as we wrap up the
panel discussion I'm going to ask I her
final question so someone is saying that
um you know um I like what a just said
about narrowing down your focus I'm
never s of being overwhelmed with um
info or feeling stuck um child's
presentation was helpful with the
different jobs so I think that's just a
comment um thank you for that so hi J
how long did it take you to become an
Enterprise security architect do you
have any tips and then um please take
that alongside how can a cyber security
graduate end up learning cloud in the
future yeah so how long they took me oh
no maybe six seven years is so I think
my role as an Enterprise security you
know first of all security security is
one of those High It's Always In Demand
right and then I think because I had
Cloud very early as well that helped me
so I I really really um accelerated very
quickly my career because of my cloud
base so it was that when I joined when I
was in Cloud was around 2018 2019 so a
lot of people were moving to cloud and
it wasn't didn't have a lot CL security
people then so it was kind of like oh
you know we need to kind of progress you
quickly because the clients were really
looking for my skills I had a client
that was like I need three IGS in my
team literally that's how she described
it I want three IGS in my team so it was
that kind of like we need them so
obviously that helps me to get a lot of
quick range of um view around Cloud
security quickly and then my role in
Enterprise security is mainly like death
SEC Ops abse and all so I'll would say
it took me about six five to six seven
years but I I stay with software
development as well cuz that helped me
in my architectural role right right cuz
I do dep SEC so I need to understand I
do app so I need to really understand
applications and the details so I it
took me that short time normally
security architect can take you like
when I interviewed for some companies I
looked at the architect rules and it's
some people it took them 10 years 11
years but things go quicker these days
because knowledge also gets you know a
lot new so AI so an AI security person
now will be so like if you really get
into AI within two 3 years four years
you'll be an expert because a very new
area so if you get deep into it you will
be very highly regarded in fact my
husband was telling me about someone
that wasn't his field in medical area
and switch to Ai and the guy is a
director now in fiser literally like his
his colleagues are still like small in
the field he's gone up to director
because he added something extra to his
medical area so it's really important to
note that I mean with tech and with
newer areas you can get before we used
to have all this oh an architect takes
15 years to become an architect that was
when things were slow things are faster
now so knowledge is increasing quickly
so the earlier you catch up getting you
can actually really grow quickly right
so that's why I would say I would say
just Target five years you can actually
get there quicker and really if you
really really like put your food ground
to understand things much more in detail
then in terms of um sorry what was the
next question again with
me you're mute I can't
hear I think um how do you end up from
being um you know a security architect
and then going into cloud in the future
yeah so I said I would say on knowing
Cloud so you already know security you
just need to know Cloud right because
the thing security doesn't really change
security is very big I think people
don't know that people tend to think
security is very intense it's not intens
so it is very basic it has very basic
principles around it what you need to
know is cloud so that you can know how
you now layer your security knowledge on
cloud security is always busy security
is always the same thing like if I give
you any Cloud solution I can literally
think of top five top six things I'm was
asking around Security in that area and
I won't go wrong right so you need to
not understand Cloud so that you can be
able to help them with the security of
their Cloud so if you already know
security that's good no Cloud if you
know Cloud you can actually add up your
security and your Cloud knowledge
together and actually start helping them
then you can always explore
certifications that would give you more
of that in-depth um assurance that you
understand things so like the AWS
security professional is a very strong
start actually G you like one it's in in
in in the in the world of um Information
Security Professionals it's like a onee
experience that getting that s so there
are some things like that that would
actually help you to assure and also get
in depth knowledge of something but I
would say no cloud like you already know
security no Cloud you kind of see that
you can layer it on top and understand
like you already have basic security it
doesn't change you just need to know
Cloud so you can be able to help them
out with the security of their Cloud
okay amazing amazing thank you so so
much child and IG very very detailed
responses we'll put the links to their
LinkedIn profile um you know in the chat
box as well feel free to connect with
them very passionate about you know
helping you get into cloud and of course
you also meet them at Cloud booster as
well so that brings us to the end of our
panel session can you say thank you to
Charles and a for such a wonderful time
and for answering your questions thank
you so much from all of us at Cloud
booster um you know we appreciate you so
the final wrap up I just want to answer
all the questions around people are
asking what's the rote what does my
journey look like some of you are saying
I'm I'm I'm over 50 I'm younger than 16
there is no age restriction to learning
cloud computing um some of you are
saying you've had issues with payments
please send a DM to any of program
advisors if that is you um we have
payments available in various currencies
but I just wanted to show you you know
what your journey to cloud computing
will look like for those that are asking
right I want to show you what your
journey will look like now if you enroll
for the training because we're starting
a new court um next
month and basically in two weeks time so
and it's an 18 weeks Journey so by
November right you're going to
understand the basics of cloud computing
still in the month of November you're
going to be exposed to storage Services
we talked about networking earlier today
Charles mentioned it the same month of
November you will um you know you will
be exposed to various kind of networking
on the cloud and by December this year
you'll be able to build um you know
computers on the cloud we call it is2
AWS is2 instance you will be able to
build that okay still the same December
you'll be exposed to databases you'll be
exposed to high availability and how to
build resilient architecture on the
cloud how to build systems on the cloud
that never fail that never go down and
by January you'll be looking at security
on the cloud which we spoken extensively
about today how do I ensure that my
cloud services are secure right by
January and of course still the same
month of January you'll be looking at
scripting as well we've talked about the
importance of prr programming um you
know we're going to be exposing you to
python scripting bat scripting lenux
scripting still in the same month you'll
be looking at Version Control which is a
very powerful Concept in the world of
cloud computing you know G and GitHub
how do you use that by February you're
going to be exposed to infrastructure as
code um child spoke about it as well
terraform you will be looking into
Docker containerization in February
container orchestration using kubernetes
and of course by March you'll be dealing
with cicd pipelines on Jenkins and
configuration Management in anible I
don't expect that you understood all
those technical terminologies that's why
you're coming to us at Cloud booster we
will take you from scratch some of you
are asking what does program untila let
me walk you through what that is it's an
18 weeks program it is virtual you don't
need to come to any physical space
everything will be done online you just
log into to zoom every Saturday 9:00
a.m. to 5:00 P p.m and you're in class
so what is part of your comprehensive
Cloud develop training is your intro to
Cloud devops course right we have very
lovely recorded videos in house you know
with a lot of Animation that explains
very different Cloud concept which you
would have as um you know resources that
would that you would work with while
you're attending um sessions every
Saturday and then we have weekly live
classes we give you one-on-one
facilitator support at Cloud booster so
you're not alone for example if you have
a class of 20 30 50 students after we
teach you those Concepts in class we
divide you into groups and in those
groups that's when you build your
Solutions on the cloud we ask you share
your screen let's see what you're doing
let's see how we can support you because
we know that you need more than just
exposing you to information to actually
know how to do the job you need to build
it right in front of us and we marking
everything we're tracking what you're
doing we're recording it you know you
have fully guided Labs as well some of
you are asking you know what kind of
projects do I get to work on AWS
standard projects devops projects
industry standard projects that you put
together add it to your CV and you help
you learn the opportunities that you
want that's what people that have you
know been a part of cloud booster that's
what they've done and of course AWS
certification exam Readiness materials
with do exam simulation sessions for you
as well you have additional resources
you have a learning community we do
employability training C reviews Mark
interview sessions and of course after
the training there's a lot of followup
involved as well the training that will
prepare you for our Cloud booster is the
AWS Cloud architect Cloud Solutions um
Solutions architect training by the end
of your training with us you'll be able
to take that exam and of course we put
you on a path where you are able to you
know keep learning and you keep growing
your skills so after training with us at
Cloud booster you'll be able to use the
following Technologies AWS as your major
cloud provider of course you can learn
other ones in the future but we want you
to learn one first and then you learn
other ones in the future you can learn
other ones as you go along once you know
one Cloud platform right you can learn
every other one and child spoke about
earlier as well so the Technologies you
be able to use AWS python linox anible
terraform DOA Jenkins GitHub kubernetes
elk these are the tools that are
topnotch in the market and because
you're listening to us today we're
offering you a 30% discount so you're
only going to pay £2,500 for the
training up until if you take advantage
of um the offer between now and 25th of
October but I have another special offer
for you some people have dropped off the
call some of you are still here so you
guys are eligible for the next offer I
have for you right and of course there
are installment payment plans available
and you can pay in any currency if
you've had issues with payment before
just reach out to any of our program
advisors we'll help you to resolve it
okay for those of you that are still on
the call this is a special discount for
you this one is a woof like if you're in
Nigeria you know what a woof is like
discount that you should not even think
about twice like come on if you're still
on the call you can take advantage of a
50% discount where you only pay 2,000
for all of that you're going to be with
us for 18 weeks we're going to expose
you to the finest Minds in the industry
Charles I all of us put it together
ahead teaching you all of this concept
from scratch you don't need to have any
background we're
you have issues on Sunday call meet us I
mean we're going to help you during the
week There's a group where you join as
well you're working on a project during
the week your stock you can reach out to
us at the working hour time you can also
we also have droping sessions on
Wednesday as well where you can bring
all the issues that you're having and
we'll help you we want to help you
transition C DeVos we know the
opportunities are there and we know that
you can do it the only thing that is
limit to you between now and your next
opportuni is the skills that you need to
acquire and we want to take advantage of
this special super special discount
expires by 12: um p.m. on Monday 21st of
October and of course we have
installment plans available as well so
all you need to do is to pay your first
deposit of £700 within 24 hours are you
qualified for that but don't worry just
reach out to us reach out to any of our
um Pro program advisors send webinar
discount to any of those WhatsApp
numbers and you can log down that deal
okay so want to help you but here for
you your um success is our joy right we
have the skill set we know the
opportunities are there in the market
and we want you to be the next person
that recruiters are chasing because you
have the skills that you need to land
that amazing job opportunity thank you
so much for your time today guys we're
looking forward to seeing you in our DMS
reach out to us we want to help you and
of course feel free to connect with all
of us on LinkedIn as well you know um of
course we would we would help and
support you on your journey that brings
us to the end of our program today
please enjoy the rest of your evening
again we're going to put the numbers in
the chat box those are the numbers to
reach out to any of our program advisors
just send webinar discount you lock down
that amount and you get started with us
in the next two weeks you can still
achieve your 2024 goals honestly the
year is not yet over like we still have
two more months this year sorry about
three more months this two and a half
months this year I can still achieve
your goal thank you guys have a lovely
day and um see you in our DMS and thank
you once again IG and Charles for such
lovely sessions thank you bye
everyone
e
e e
