imagine you can make transactions with
anyone without carrying any cash or
plastic money and without anyone
actually interfering like third-party
applications or Banks sounds like a nice
dream right well it's not blockchain is
a revolutionary technology that has
changed how transactions work it intends
to provide a safe and secure mode of
transactions by using digital crypto
currencies that cannot be manipulated by
anyone with ulterior motives blockchain
is a of blocks that record information
of transactions like who made the
transactions to whom the amount of trade
in the form of a digital Ledger that is
distributed across the entire network
making it more secure and impossible to
change hack or cheat the system then it
is verified and validated by every node
in the blockchain network to proceed
with the process of making the
transactions it's cryptocurrency like
Bitcoin ethereum and many more that make
use of this blockchain network for Trans
transactions as it helps you keep track
of them as the market capitalization of
the cryptocurrency almost everyday new
cryptocurrencies are coming in front and
more and more people are willing to
participate in this revolution of the
economy blockchain is believed to
revolutionize the economy and Technology
of the world in the coming future and
like Fred esram co-founder of coinbase
said everything will be tokenized and
connected by a blockchain one day
I
