I'm Joel Young and I'm the CTO here at
digi international at digi security is
at the forefront of everything we do yet
we see that in planning an IOT strategy
it oftentimes isn't as well thought
through as it should be I often hear
questions like I want to know if the
cloud is secure or how can i deploy
applications in our data center but
rarely does someone ask me to prove that
a specific device is secure and it's a
question that should be asked more often
HP security research did an evaluation
and found that 70% of what we call IOT
devices are vulnerable to an attack
today I want to cover five steps to help
ensure a more secure Internet of Things
approach through stronger device
security the first one will call secure
boot that means that only authorized
firmware can be put on your machine so
in essence you no matter who's updating
your firmware no one can add a few lines
of code here and there or install some
malware because if it isn't authorized
it's not making it onto that machine now
let's take a look at authentication how
many devices do you think are shipped
with default password authentication or
no authentication at all passwords are
passe especially for machines strong
certificate based authentication is the
best way to secure access to a device
you only have to look to the recent
mirai ddos attack which took out
companies like amazon spotify and
twitter all because there is no
authentication on home routers and
set-top boxes often overlooked are
protected ports this is physical
security sometimes they're called JTAG
ports essentially there are other ways
of actually going in and physically
debugging the system and since you have
to physically have access to the device
most people don't worry about it what do
we know about the world of Internet
well what we know is that machines are
placed in places where people often art
or people that care aren't right if I
showed up in a maintenance suit and told
you I was just doing some repairs you
might not think anything of it but
unless those debugging ports are
protected you've just opened yourself up
to being hat now let's talk storage many
of us know that if we're storing data on
a large enterprise system the data is
secure but what about the flash storage
on your embedded device it turns out
embedded systems typically have
something called flash storage and they
might hold some information from time to
time that's not immediately secured or
encrypted and that can open you up to a
security breach leaving all that
information at risk last but not least
there's secure connections secure
connections have two components one of
those components is actually encrypting
the over-the-air data and the other is
appropriate key exchange appropriate key
exchange must include authentication and
authorization upfront to set up that
encrypted connection why are they both
important because if you don't do the
first part right then the keys are open
and anybody can unencrypted and if
you're not encrypting then someone could
easily take a peek at your data but not
all data is created equal right does
anyone really care about your
temperature sensor data well it turns
out that things like IP addresses and
port identification may also get sent
and if you're not securing that whole
communication pipe it leaves it open for
an attack
so what's included with digi trust fence
secure booth that's the secure firmware
authentication covers proper
identification no default passwords
protected ports those debug ports
require authentication so that they're
not open secure storage
in other words encrypted storage even in
an embedded device secure connections
make sure that you have secured
connections encrypted authorized and
authenticated so when you think in terms
of IOT security remember those five key
areas and then look to digi trust vents
to give you the security tools you need
so that you don't have to worry and you
can sleep well at night
