in this section we will talk about some
challenges related to Big Data one thing
that you will see in almost every
presentation about Big Data is that we
are facing an unstoppable information
growth the amount of data that we are
handling is rapidly increasing so if we
illustrate the growth of data we will
see that we have a tremendous growth and
we are actually just at the beginning of
the curve that is going really straight
up
when we look into the big data sources
we want to see what are the key sources
for this big data traditionally we have
our business transactions various
business systems are generating data and
we have more and more of this data but
it is interesting that this part is
relatively well understood we have our
relational systems that quite
successfully handle this area but there
are some associated forces with that one
of the big changes in this space are the
social media we have facebook and blogs
and Twitter and the users are generating
tremendous amounts of data now this data
as you will see later could not be
really successfully stored in relational
systems and this area was actually very
important when it comes to introduction
in new data stores which can handle this
amount of data in addition to this we
have a raise of unstructured data so we
have a tremendous amount of text that is
generated text that you would like to
analyze we would also like to understand
what is this text about increasingly we
have other non structured data like
images and video and imagine you would
like to be able to make queries about
who is in some a video so conventional
systems really don't have a good support
for dealing with this type of data
sources sensors are one of the most
exciting new sources for big data
sensors can generate tremendous amount
of data that you need to store and
process and it is likely that sensors
are going to be the most interesting new
contributor to the growth in big data
for watching this or I'll a training
video if you'd like more information on
this topic click on learn more don't
forget to subscribe to the o'reilly
video training youtube channel for more
tutorials and be sure to like us on
facebook
