so as more and more of our lives are
captured in
digital big data analytics is going to
become increasingly
ubiquitous as a society we have the
opportunity to choose if we want the
insights it generates to be used to
exploit and manipulate us or to enrich
our
lives how we approach privacy will have
the single greatest impact on that
outcome let's imagine a future where
every piece of information you see is
filtered by an algorithm you only see
what it wants you to
see your favorite social networking site
which you log into daily to check your
news feed needs to go advertising
revenue of diet
products to do this it primes the pump
by feeding new articles tailored to
reinforce your body image issues
then when it observes a decrease in your
self-confidence it pushes targeted
advertising at you to grab you while
you're at a low
app I I lie not the social networking
site gets its advertising Revenue its
client sells lots of diet products and
you end up feeling bad about
yourself and it could be a lot worse I
promise you um but the reality is it
doesn't have to be like this and I don't
think we want to live in a world where
it's going to be like this
let's imagine instead instead of
manipulating you without your knowledge
the system was open and transparent with
you it shared the insights that it had
generated and gave you options to choose
from now maybe you still do end up
buying diet product or maybe you sign up
for cooking classes you join a gym or
you do nothing whatever you do it would
have been your conscious
Choice Social Mobile and Cloud
Technologies are connecting us as never
before and if we want to benefit from
being part of this new Global human
Network then we need to accept that much
of our data is out there and is out of
our immediate
control the reaction of many governments
is is to suggest that we simply turn off
the data tab either by preventing data
from being gathered or wrapping it in
complicated regulatory
Frameworks the problem with this
approach is that in this interconnected
World data leaks between people so the
data someone else shares can generate an
insight about you and it may be an
Insight that you really don't want
somebody else to have or to use data
ownership is utterly meaningless it's
who the Insight refers to that
counts also defining data as public or
private is also a challenge because
analytics can take public data like
social media or web data
to derive a private insight for example
modeling your daily habits in order to
predict your physical
location on the other hand analytics can
take private data such as your GPS
location to generate a public Insight
that never exposes uniquely identifiable
information so what do we do in this new
world this new interconnected world
where we're faced with privacy
spaghetti there is no easy solution to
privacy and different scenarios require
different
approaches however knowing what is
possible with data
analytics the type of insights that we
can infer from the seemingly innocuous
and how we can fill in missing data I
believe a key challenge that we need to
address is one of
transparency in much the same way as
consumers have decided that it's
socially unacceptable to buy from
companies that pollute the environment
we could choose as individuals and a
society if we really want to engage with
organizations that are not open and
transparent about how they are
collecting analyzing and using
information about
us and a culture of transparency could
not only give us access to these
insights but it could also then enable
us to exercise appro appropriate
control so how would transparency work
in the real world I'd like to share with
you a project I've been working on
within IBM for the last couple of years
so IBM has been using social and
collaboration Technologies since long
before it was popular so we're sitting
on probably one of the largest and the
longest standing Enterprise social
networks on the
planet our challenge is that on the one
hand we've got an Engaged Active network
of employees who are all looking to
maximize the benefits that they get from
their social and collaboration
investment and then we've got a
management team Keen to understand what
the network is saying about their
employees and the business as a
whole when I was asked to build a system
that would analyze our Enterprise Social
Network I decided to take a privacy by
Design approach and before we wrote a
line of code we defined the philosophy
that would guide our subsequent design
decisions it had three
principles privacy and personal autonomy
at the heart of every decision that we
make and everything we do will be our
commitment to openness and transparency
with our
employees Simplicity and ease of use all
analytics will be clearly described
simply presented and understandable to
every employee and personal empowerment
knowledge is power and we will put
actionable insight into the hands of all
employees so employees get access to
these new insights and they get to
choose
if they want to share them with anyone
else management get access to aggregated
analysis that allows them to drill down
to subsets of the network but not to a
uniquely identifiable
individual while this approach may seem
restrictive and if some people thought I
was insane when I initially suggested it
I can tell you because we're doing all
this analysis but we're not going to
show you but the upside has been really
significant for us on a number of
different fronts so the first thing is
by defining very simple principles that
don't require a law degree to
decipher we've demonstrated trust with
our employees and we've built this
trusting relationship with our employees
by being open and transparent with them
we've been able to generate dialogue and
completely change the conversation
around how to use and generate value out
of Social and collaboration data which
for me has been one of the most
rewarding parts of the project because
I've seen employees who would be
naturally suspicious of such an analytic
system not only proactively requesting
to join but offering to share more
data and really engaging in the
conversation the other thing as well is
by putting employees in control of the
analytics we've demonstrated
respect and then this whole engagement
respect and Trust has meant that we can
create new relationships with our
employees so corporate programs now have
access to new insights
but in a way that is they can access
them in a way that is respectful and
sensitive to employees so just to
demonstrate an example of this um a few
months ago an an advocacy program within
IBM reached out to me and they wanted
access to the analytics that we
generated when I explained that the an
analytics was Private to each employee
and I couldn't share it they were
initially disappointed however when we
looked in more detail at what their
program needed we recognized that we
could give them so much more than
analytics we could give them an
opportunity to really engage and build
relationships with the ibmers they
wanted to
recruit so our system could accurately
map the needs of our users with the
needs of their
program but by reaching back to
employees first before we shared
anything we not only demonstrated that
this program respected the employees and
their privacy but we also ensured that
the recommendations that we gave only
included ibms that really wanted to be
part of the program so this team they
bravely didn't look at privacy as a
barrier to Innovation instead they saw
as an opportunity to innovate and I
believe their program is better because
of it so could this approach to
transparency or this culture of
transparency work in the external social
sphere I personally believe it could and
more importantly I believe it
should um much as we have given our
employees access to the analytics and
control on the analytics that we
generate about them why should a
consumer have less level of transparency
from the services that they use I know
personally I would like to know what
sort of assumptions my favorite retailer
might be making about me and what
they're doing with those
insights data analytics is going to be
key to our
future and as a society and if we want
Society to really benefit positively we
need to take this journey
together if we can Embrace privacy
instead of fight it and if instead of
looking for the easy solution we look
for the best solution for all
participants then maybe we can avoid
this tug-of war between the citizen on
the one hand who doesn't want to be
digitally stalked and manipulated and
the organization on the other whose very
survival may depend on its ability to
harvest and generate value from this
data demonstrating openness and
transparency builds trust and it allows
our users to engage more openly and more
freely with us and share more data and
more data means more value for them and
for us it's a virtuous
circle thank
you
