[Music]
at data ethics we focus on four key
components of data
Excellence
governance
analytics privacy and
team let's look at these four areas a
little
closer data governance when thinking
about data governance we examine a
plethora of components with particular
focus on the alignment of systems
balancing the data life progression
defining roles and
responsibilities and documenting
processes data analytics focuses on
using information that your organization
currently has and using it to better
achieve its
Mission this may include creating or
evaluating dashboards both Dynamic and
static the creation of data briefs and
data reports the creation of data
presentations and the development of
balanced
metrics data privacy gets to the core of
how information is collected and managed
managing data privacy includes the
development of privacy impact
assessments the development of privacy
plans and strategies establishing
privacy policies and applicable
statements as well as providing privacy
training data teams we can help further
develop your data team or create one
from the ground up we can help organize
data teams currently being formed and
provide coaching to individual data team
members so that they can more
effectively contribute to the team as a
whole
governance
analytics privacy and
[Music]
team the four fundamental principles of
data
Excellence currently there are members
of your organization who are thinking
about and have the responsibility for
the collection management use and
destruction of the data at your
organization we are here to help augment
your team to make you even more
effective by focusing on the four areas
of data Excellence data ethics helps
organizations maximize the efficiency
and the quality of their daily
activities we encourage you to give us a
call for a free consultation to discuss
how we may be able to help you with your
data needs
[Music]
