foreign
do you use any navigation application to
go through traffic jams what happens
when you scroll down through your social
media feeds do you follow any
recommendation that any streaming
service might give you
so by the end of the day we know that AI
is there but do we actually understand
what is going on and can we trust the
output of those applications
[Music]
foreign
the approach that we've taken to these
kinds of Technologies is to say well
consumers can figure this out on their
own they can read the terms and
conditions on websites they can choose
not to participate in certain digital
environments but increasingly these
products and platforms are part of our
Lives they are part of the way that we
provide education they are part of the
way that we look for jobs and that power
imbalance cannot be addressed by simply
giving consumers more information or
giving them individual rights of
complaint what we're ultimately going to
have to do if we're going to change the
kind of structural ways in which these
Technologies are designed is to push the
responsibilities back on our designers
back on the organizations who are
relying on Technologies to change their
practices is
Technologies like artificial
intelligence have the potential to
empower people and to broaden their
perspectives or
they can widen inequalities and really
don't contribute to address our societal
challenges but we cannot blame the
Technologies it's not about the
Technologies it's about us developing
the framework shaping the rules that
will allow these Technologies to deliver
to what we want them to achieve
and we need to make sure that we embed
those very important ethical principles
the protection and promotion of Human
Rights and human dignity that would at
the end determine the outcomes
responsible governance of AI
Technologies without the buy-in of big
Tech and other companies is impossible
it is necessary for us to find ways in
which to explain to them that ethics is
not about abstract principles
ethics should be bottom up it is a
dynamic system it should enable
Innovation and in the end lead to trust
in products of these companies which
would lead to success in terms of
whatever their business aims are
we see how ethical debates end up
playing an important role in shaping the
conversation of AI regulation over the
last five years we saw a plethora of
Charters Declaration of AI ethical
principles
[Music]
foreign
we are seeing right now that those
principles are being applied on a very
practical basis
a lot of countries in Latin America have
already come up with their National
strategies on artificial intelligence
but some countries in the region are
going a step further they are actually
regulating through hard law some of the
principles of artificial intelligence
in the European Union we're looking at
draft AI Acts in the U.S Congress is
starting to talk in great detail about
Monopoly power of technology companies
and you can see the wheels turning
across the world as countries move from
awareness raising
to strategy to attempts at
implementation attempts at regulation
[Music]
lack of accessibility to these
Technologies by definition would exclude
one from the debate on responsible
governance because in effect the
decisions that are generated in such a
process would just not apply to a person
who is not part of the data set so in
fact you are deleted you don't exist
what is linked to this as well is the
issue that previously colonized
countries are excluded from
conversations around what responsible
governance would be and this just
exacerbates the problem
so there is a first step that needs to
be taken which is to understand
which groups are excluded from this
conversation because when we talk about
regulation of AI we're talking about
privacy we're talking about that
protection we're talking about freedom
of expression we are talking about very
basic human rights
what makes the difference is to have
sound regulatory Frameworks
that will protect privacy that will
enhance transparency that will really
deliver on accountability but this is
something we need to shape it needs to
be through a process where we listen to
everybody and I feel that this is the
only way we can deliver strong bases for
the Technologies to deliver to our human
goals
the great risk at this point in time is
that artificial intelligence becomes a
arms race in which each country only
focus on its own context and see the
other countries as competitors
AI might build Bridges and connect
people and countries
but at the same time could be the other
way around this is the debates that you
should care about because that's the
debate that is shaping up our future
with technology
[Music]
[Music]
