[Music]
AI
ethics artificial intelligence AI is an
important part of our everyday lives For
Better or For
Worse ensuring that AI is developed
designed and deployed in an ethical
manner is critical given its role in our
society AI ethics also called ethical AI
or responsible AI can refer to both the
process of developing Ai and to the AI
product
itself companies governments
associations and communities have
drafted codes of ethics for
AI these codes address issues such as
accountability trust transparency
fairness and
agency philosopher luchano fidi has
analyzed many of these codes of ethics
for AI
and from them developed an overarching
framework consisting of five key
principles principle number one
beneficence AI should be developed and
applied to improve the well-being of our
planet and its
people principle number two
non-maleficence
because AI could end human life as we
know it a Do no harm principle is
critical
it's also important to avoid harming
privacy autonomy employability and other
such
interests principle number three
autonomy our ability to act freely and
independently must be preserved and
promoted while the autonomy of machines
must be
restricted principle number four
Justice AI must be developed designed
and deployed in ways that promote
Justice fairness equity and other
related
values principle number five
explicability
to promote the other principles we need
to know the how and why of AI systems
and products accountability and
intelligibility are
key knowing the how and why allows us to
hold the correct groups responsible for
the beneficial and negative impacts of
AI because AI has the potential to
improve our world ethical AI advocates
for more than simply preventing
harm AI that benefits Society or AI for
social good is another key concept of
the ethics of
AI it argues that those who develop and
apply AI have a moral responsibility to
use AI to advance social welfare and
promote the well-being of our
Planet so while the ethics of AI are
still evolving one thing is clear policy
makers Business Leaders technology
developers academics and communities
must come together to mitigate harms and
to ensure that AI supports a flourishing
Global Society
