hello and welcome back to my channel
you know as artificial intelligence
becomes a bigger part of our everyday
lives we really need to think about the
ethical side of things AI has the
potential to do some amazing stuff like
making Health Care better or improving
schools but without the right ethical
guidance AI could also cause some
problems we didn't expect like making
biased decisions or invading our privacy
so in today's video I want to give you a
rundown of AI ethics why it's important
and the main ideas behind developing
ethical AI
AI ethics the need for ethical
considerations
when it comes to AI there are quite a
few ethical challenges we need to think
about because they can have a big impact
on society one of the main concerns is
that AI systems might make existing
biases even worse leading to unfair
treatment and discrimination for example
facial recognition technology hasn't
been great at recognizing people with
darker skin tones which raises concerns
about racial bias
another big ethical issue we need to
think about is how AI affects our
privacy you see AI systems need a lot of
personal data to work well and that can
potentially mess with our privacy rights
plus AI is used more and more in making
decisions and that's got people worried
about transparency and accountability
AI algorithms can be kind of like black
boxes where it's hard to figure out how
they're making their decisions
this lack of transparency can make it
tough to trust AI systems and might lead
to unfair or just plain wrong results
because of these ethical challenges it's
super important to make AI systems that
follow ethical principles and focus on
fairness transparency and accountability
to tackle these concerns a bunch of
organizations and researchers have come
up with ethical guidelines and ideas for
developing AI main principles guiding
ethical AI development
fairness making sure AI systems don't
treat some people or groups unfairly is
a really important ethical idea to make
AI Fair developers need to think about
possible biases in their algorithms and
do something about them this might mean
using all kinds of different data for
training checking AI systems for bias
now and then and using machine learning
techniques that are built to be fair
transparency AI systems need to be clear
about how they're making decisions so
that we can trust them and hold them
accountable
this idea of transparent AI sometimes
called explainable AI is all about
making AI algorithms easy for us regular
folks to understand creating transparent
AI systems might involve using models
that are easier to interpret or
explaining AI decisions after the fact
privacy keeping our privacy safe is
another big ethical idea when it comes
to AI
AI developers have to think about
privacy when they're designing and using
AI systems and they should use
techniques that help protect our privacy
like differential privacy and Federated
learning these methods let AI systems
learn from data without actually getting
their hands on our sensitive personal
info accountability
AI systems and the people who make them
need to be held responsible for what
they do that means we need ways to keep
an eye on check up on and judge AI
systems and we need to know who's
responsible for AI related decisions
plus it's super important to have a
culture where AI developers feel a sense
of ethical responsibility so we can be
sure AI systems follow ethical
principles
conclusion
so folks as AI becomes more and more a
part of our Lives we really need to keep
a close eye on the ethical side of
things yes AI has the power to do some
incredible things like making our health
care better or giving our schools a
boost at the same time if we don't pay
attention AI could also cause some
unintended problems like creating biased
decisions or stepping on our privacy
that's why I wanted to share some
thoughts of AI ethics the reasons it
matters and the main ideas that help
guide the development of ethical AI
and there you have it thank you for
watching and if you have not already
please like And subscribe have a great
day
