alright welcome back and this part we're
gonna cover functions and why do we want
to create functions how do we create
them and why they are awesome
so let's start off with creating another
variable here so we're gonna call this
Const and we're gonna call it name all
right super original and we're gonna
call it dev add like so good we're gonna
save this and now we're gonna create the
function so what is a function a simple
way to explain a function is a set of
code that we're gonna write to do things
for us so we just we just separate a
specific task that we had into a
function so in a real-life example it
would be something like it is a function
because it has more steps so you go into
the kitchen grab the food you prepare
the food then you're gonna eat it and
then if you want you can wash the plates
if you want and that's the whole process
okay so the function would be a set of
code that you write that does a task
alright so rather than doing like grab
food eat food whoa
and write a whole bunch of crap down
here rather than doing this we can
create a function that's gonna isolate
everything that we want it to do so to
show you a great example we're gonna I'm
gonna introduce you to something that we
can do on this name so what we can do is
the way we create a function is we're
gonna write function like so and again
we can give it a name like let's say
this function is gonna take our name
here and it's gonna put everything in
uppercase alright so
we're gonna name this upper case like so
and it's a good convention also to use a
lower case here and then upper case here
so let's say you want to have a variable
called gallery images cons gallery
images like so so this is how we're
gonna write it just because it's gonna
make everything more clear it's gonna
make everything more visible on what's
going on and it's just basically a
convention that people use so rather
than doing it lowercase like this and
then everything just goes together like
this it's gonna look ugly and it's gonna
be hard to to read it and like this is
everything it's just gonna be more
visible so anyways this is why we wrote
it like this and what we're gonna do
here is we're gonna open up some
parentheses like so and then some
brackets like so all right I'm gonna go
over what all of these dot do but what
we did here is we created a function and
in here we can give a set of
instructions of what we want it to do
now let's for now remain this rename
this to logger and here let's say we're
gonna console.log Party Time party time
like so
alright multiple times and the way I did
that is I just hold shift and alt and
press down on the down arrow and it's
just gonna multiply it's gonna create a
copy of this down here alright so this
is our function it's just gonna console
a quick time pretty time four times good
but if we look at our code our console
here nothing's happening why is that
well this is now gonna execute so when
we run this code what's gonna happen
basically is JavaScript is gonna take a
look at this and it's gonna say oh okay
so we have a name variable alright it
has a value of Devitt cool I'm gonna
save this in memory nice okay we have a
function here
and it has console logs or whatever you
want cool I'm gonna save this in memory
so whenever we want to run the function
we need to run it we need to run it so
this is just saving it to memory all
right it's not actually doing anything
right now so the way we run this code is
we're gonna write the name of it like so
logger add the parentheses and then
we're gonna close it like so so the way
we did it so far hit save and now you're
gonna see Party Time party time party
time party time so this is called a
function invocation all right so this is
where you want to execute your function
so this is all it does cool but why do
we need to add these things here
and why are these brackets here well the
thing is that the brackets mean that
everything that's available here is only
available here and what I mean by that
is if we take the sconce name and add it
in here like so our name down here is
not gonna be available so what's gonna
happen here is we pass the variable in
this function so it's only gonna be
available in here all right name is not
gonna be available down here all right
so whatever variables you add inside the
function are not gonna be available down
here outside of the function all right
so basically what these are called to
quickly go to this is called the global
scope and this call this is called the
function scoped all right so but however
if you add this to global scope then in
here console.log name so this is gonna
be available here so everything from
global scope is gonna be available in
our function scope
however variables declared in our
function scope are now gonna be
available in our global
so whatever you have in your function is
closed and whatever you have in global
is available everywhere okay that's all
you need to know for now all right cool
so let's delete this and why do we need
these well now it's the time to change
this to two upper is we're going to do
our text to uppercase cool
so let's invoke it again here to upper
like so close let's see if we get
partytime good
well rather than having party time we
want to get this and make it uppercase
cool so what we can do here is we can
add the reason why we add these
parentheses is that we can add key
parameter to it and what the parameter
does is basically you can inject a
variable or a value inside of it and
it's gonna run down here you're gonna
have access to it down here so what I
mean by that is let's say we have
actually I say let's say we want to add
two numbers together so to let's say
either like so so here what we can do is
we can console.log and we're gonna say
let's just add two values here so you
can name these whatever you want you can
say number one number two with comments
okay so here we can console log number
one plus number two all right now this
doesn't make any sense
what is number one and what is number
two we don't know and we can't log the
addition down here cool well it makes no
sense until you invoke the function so
either here we can pass in here the two
different numbers that we want and
that's going to be injected in the
parameter here and then it's gonna pass
down here and add the numbers together
so if we add five here and
five or ten then the five is gonna go in
here so basically it's gonna be injected
in here ten is gonna be injected in here
and then the console.log it's gonna add
these two numbers together so if we save
we're gonna get 15 here so that's that's
why we use the parentheses is because we
can add different parameters and here
now why is this useful well again if we
go back jumping around with this to
upper case 10,000 times but if we had
the two upper well we know that we are
gonna get a text that we want to
uppercase now we can we might need
different kind of text to be uppercase
so we don't want to just execute it on
this and I'm gonna show you in one bit
so let's just say we have a text in here
and what we can do here is we can get
the text and if we add dot we can call
additional functions that are built into
JavaScript so as strings so texts have
different functions built into them
numbers have different built-in
functions that we can use on our code so
we can do text dot to upper case like so
and then we do the parameters again this
is something inbuilt in JavaScript
that's gonna make our text uppercase so
now we can say console.log text like so
it's safe and down here we can say to
upper and now what we can do is we can
inject the name from up here down here
so if we say name and we check well
actually what we need to do is we can
take and create a new variable rather
than just console logging text because
that that the value that's going to be
console logged what we can do is we can
create a cons called upper case
like so so we create a new variable and
dysfunction and we just set it equal to
our text that we get from our parameter
and then uppercase it so we can
console.log uppercase t' here so if we
hit save then you're gonna see that
everything is uppercase like so so again
to walk through this super fast we
create a function like so we give it a
name so just like variables this is a
parameter here we create a new variable
and we just set it equal to our
parameter that's going to come in which
is the name so we're passing the name
this one from up here into here so this
is dev add here and then our uppercase
is going to be equal to dev ed dot to
uppercase so this is a again a a
function that's already built in for us
that we can use on our text and then we
just cancel out the uppercase so that's
how we can use functions so the cool
thing now is that we can create cons
YouTuber is equal to you name a youtuber
and Trevor C media right so down here we
can just save to upper youtuber and boom
we should have traversing media all
uppercase so there we go
that's how that's the basic sub
functions that we can use and later on
we're gonna cover again different
functions that are already built in for
us that we can use alright so this is
one way we can use a function I'm gonna
delete everything here another way we
can use one is by doing the way we do
variables which I prefer actually rather
than this so then this method so what we
can do is we can do const and we can
right give it a name so two upper like
so equals u and we can set it equal to a
function just like normal okay so this
is another version you can use and the
last version which is the modern version
we can use this is rather than
writing this whole function thing we can
make this one shorter so we don't even
need to write function so what you can
replace here is you can remove the
function keyword and after the
parameters you can just add an equal and
a bigger than sign so this is the
shortest way you can write a function so
you set it equal to a some empty
parameters that you have here and you do
equal and bigger than sign so you don't
need to write function anymore so these
are the three ways I prefer this way you
can use different ones but I thought I'd
show all three of them for you all right
so that's it those are functions
basically and in the next video we're
gonna cover Ray's objects and all the
other good stuff so thanks again for
watching the next videos are gonna be up
and like one or two days so I'm gonna
release three parts again for you
alright thank you so much for watching
again please drop a subscribe and I'm
gonna see you in a bit bye bye
