foreign
introduction to cyber security
Frameworks in today's digital age cyber
security has become a top priority for
individuals and organizations alike with
the increasing number of cyber threats
and attacks it is essential to have a
comprehensive cyber security framework
in place to protect sensitive
information and data cyber security
Frameworks provide a structured approach
to managing and mitigating cyber risks
by outlining best practices guidelines
and standards in this article we will
explore three of the most widely used
cyber security Frameworks this cyber
security framework ISO 270001
information security management system
and CIS controls for Effective cyber
defense by understanding these
Frameworks you can better protect
yourself and your organization from
cyber threats and ensure that your cyber
security measures are up to par with
industry standards
2. this cyber security framework
the nist cyber security framework is a
set of guidelines and best practices
designed to help organizations manage
and reduce cyber security risks it was
developed by the National Institute of
Standards and Technology NISD in
response to executive order
13636 which call for the creation of a
framework that would help critical
infrastructure organizations improve
their cyber security posture the
framework consists of five core
functions identify protect protect
respond and recover each function is
further broken down into categories and
subcategories that provide more specific
guidance on how to implement the
framework
the identify function focuses on
understanding an organization's cyber
security risks and vulnerabilities this
includes identifying all assets systems
and data that need to be protected as
well as assessing the potential impact
of a Cyber attack
the protect function involves
implementing safeguards to protect
against cyber threats this includes
measures such as access controls
encryption and security awareness
training for employees
the detect function involves monitoring
systems and networks for signs of a
Cyber attack this includes implementing
intrusion detection and prevention
systems as well as conducting regular
vulnerability scans and penetration
testing
the respond function involves developing
and implementing a plan to respond to a
Cyber attack this includes establishing
an incident Response Team defining roles
and responsibilities and developing
procedures for containing and mitigating
the effects of an attack
finally recover function involves
restoring normal operations after a
Cyber attack this includes developing a
business continuity plan conducting
backups of critical data and ensuring
that systems can be quickly restored in
the event of an outage overall the nist
cyber security framework provides a
comprehensive approach to managing cyber
security risks by following its
guidelines and best practices
organizations can better protect
themselves against cyber threats and
ensure the confidentiality integrity and
availability of their sensitive data 3.
ISO 27001 information security
management system the iso 27001
information security management system
is a globally recognized framework that
provides a systematic approach to
managing sensitive information it
outlines a set of best practices for
establishing implementing maintaining
and continually improving an
organization's information security
management system the frame work is
designed to help organizations identify
and manage risk to their information
assets including confidential data
intellectual property and customer
information it also helps ensure
compliance with legal Regulatory and
contractual requirements related to
information security
ISO 27001 consists of several key
components including risk assessment and
treatment security controls and
continuous Improvement the framework
emphasizes the importance of a
risk-based approach to information
security which involves identifying
potential threats and vulnerabilities
assessing the likelihood and impact of
those risks and implementing appropriate
controls to mitigate them one of the
strengths of iso 27001 is its
flexibility the framework can be adapted
to suit the specific needs of different
organizations regardless of their size
industry or location it can also be
integrated with other management systems
such as quality management or
Environmental Management to create a
comprehensive approach to organizational
governance
overall the iso 27001 information
security management system is a valuable
tool for organizations looking to
establish a robust and effective
information security program by
following the framework's guidelines
organizations can better protect their
sensitive information reduce the risk of
cyber attacks and demonstrate their
commitment to security to stakeholders
and customers alike
4. CIS controls for Effective cyber
defense the center for Internet Security
Cas controls is a set of best practices
designed to help organizations protect
their systems and data from cyber
threats the controls are organized into
three categories basic foundational and
organizational
the basic controls include measures such
as inventory and control of Hardware
assets inventory and control of software
assets continuous vulnerability
management and controlled use of
administrative privileges these controls
are considered essential for any
organization that wants to establish a
strong cyber security posture
the foundational controls build upon the
basic controls and include measures such
as email and web browser protections
malware defenses data recovery
capabilities and secure configurations
for network devices these controls are
designed to provide additional layers of
protection against common cyber threats
finally organizational controls focus on
the policies procedures and training
necessary to maintain an effective cyber
security program these controls include
measures such as security awareness
training incident response planning and
penetration testing by implementing the
sys controls organizations can establish
a comprehensive cyber security program
that addresses both Technical and
organizational aspects of security the
controls are regularly updated based on
new threats and vulnerabilities ensuring
that organizations stay up to date with
the latest best practices in cyber
security
foreign
[Music]
