welcome to wide world programming where
we simplify programming for you with
easy to understand by code videos and
today I'll be giving you a brief
explanation of all machine learning
models so let's get started
broadly speaking all machine learning
models can be categorized as supervised
or unsupervised we'll uncovered each one
of them and what all types they have
[Music]
number one supervised learning it
involves a series of function that map's
an input to an output based on a series
of example input-output pairs for
example if we have a data set of two
variables one being age which is the
input and other being the shoe size as
output we could implement a supervised
learning models to predict the shoe size
of a person based on their age further
with supervised learning there are two
sub categories one is regression and
other is classification
in relation model we find a target value
based on independent predictors that
means you can use this to find
relationship between a dependent
variable and an independent variable in
regression models the output is
continuous some of the most common types
of resistant model include number one
linear regression which is simply
finding a line that fits the data its
extensions include multiple linear
regression that is finding a plane of
best fit and polynomial regression that
is finding a curve for best fit next one
decision tree it looks something like
this where each square above is called a
node and the more nodes you have the
more accurate your decision tree will be
in general next and the third type
random forest
these are assemble learning techniques
that builds off over decision trees and
involve creating multiple decision trees
using bootstrap data sets of original
data and randomly selecting a subset of
variables at each step of the decision
tree the model then selects the mode of
all the predictions of each decision
trees and by relying on the majority
winds model it reduces the risk of error
from individual tree next neural network
it is quite popular and is a multi
layered model inspired by human minds
like the neurons in our brain the circle
represents a node the blue circle
represents an input layer the black
circle represents a hidden layer and the
green circle represents the output layer
each node in the hidden layer represents
a function that input goes through
ultimately leading to the output in the
green circles
next classification so with regression
types being over now let's jump to
classification so in classification the
output is discrete some of the most
common types of classification models
include first logistic regression which
is similar to linear regression but is
used to model the probability of a
finite number of outcomes typically two
next support vector machine it is a
supervised classification technique that
carries an objective to find a hyper
lane in n-dimensional space that can
distinctly classify the data points next
navies it's a classifier which acts as a
probabilistic machine learning model
used for classification tasks the crux
of the classifier is based on the Bayes
theorem coming up next
decision trees random forests and neural
networks these models follow the same
logic as previously explained the only
difference here is that the output is
discrete rather than continuous now next
let's jump over to unsupervised learning
unlike supervised learning unsupervised
learning is used to draw inferences and
find patterns from input data without
references to the labeled outcome two
main methods used in supervised learning
include clustering and dimensionality
reduction clustering involves grouping
of data points it's frequently used for
customer segmentation fraud detection
and document classification common
clustering techniques include k-means
clustering hierarchical clustering means
shape clustering and density based
clustering while each technique has
different methods in finding clusters
they all aim to achieve the same thing
coming up next dimensionality reduction
it is a process of reducing dimensions
of your feature set Auto States simply
reducing the number of features most
dimensionality reduction techniques can
be categorized as either feature
elimination or feature extraction a
popular method of dimensionality
reduction is called principal component
analysis or PCA obviously there's a ton
of complexity if we dive into any
particular model to help you with each I
will be publishing new videos so be sure
to smash that subscribe button to be
notified on every upload next if this
video helped you be sure to like it and
share it with someone who might need it
[Music]
