welcome back everyone this video we're
going to be talking about machine
learning models now make sure you've
watched the previous two videos in the
series because they're going to set the
foundation for understanding why we use
machine learning and how its useful one
of the big terms are going to hear when
you're studying machine learning is
model and the goal of this video is to
have a full understanding of what a
model is the previous video mentioned
historical data specifically what we
called a data set this is essentially a
crap-ton of data that sort of represents
reality the more data the more close to
reality we are you can think of this
data set as modeling reality so a model
is just a representation of reality but
sometimes a data set is not enough
because we can't just look at a data set
and know what's gonna happen or what
people are interested in or who's gonna
have diabetes we're not capable of
looking at terabytes of data and making
those kind of decisions so we need
something more for a moment let's look
at this data set and consider it a
representation of reality
now let's split that data set into a
bunch of sections so each one of these
sections can represent a piece of
reality now
I want you to think of just doing that
as many times as you can so we're gonna
basically find the limit of splitting
this data we're going to split that as
many times until we have individual
representations of reality okay now I'm
going to try to not be so fluffy with
this and be a little bit more concrete
let's talk about diabetes and let's say
we're trying to predict diabetes how do
we know if someone is likely to have
diabetes in their lifetimes
well this dataset is going to contain a
lot of information about people their
health history so we're gonna have a ton
of information and if we continue to
split this data to where we get down to
like the individual
cells of data we're talking about one
particular instance of what we're trying
to predict whether or not someone has
diabetes so one element in this
historical data could be a person we
have this happy person in this data set
we have all their information this
person might be a male they might be
under the age of 50 and they might have
a family history of diabetes so this is
one representation of reality we might
grab another instance of data over here
let's say this one's a lady this person
female she might be over 50 and no
history of diabetes and in her family
and as you continue to do this you can
think of all of the different
possibilities of data inside of this
data set you could have the same exact
person who's under 50 has a history of
family diabetes but is a female then you
could have the same exact person who's a
male who's greater than 50 and has no
history of diabetes just think of all of
the different possibilities of data and
then we're going to represent that data
in a table these are the columns of our
table and we're going to try to
represent reality here now I'm just
gonna warn you guys this is like super
super simplified and that's one of the
downsides of teaching this is it's
really hard to represent reality when
you only have a chalkboard you more
likely would need an entire data set so
this is like getting rid of a bunch of
important data and really simplifying it
to binary yes or no male or female and
that's going to make it a lot more easy
to understand so we could have male less
than 50 yes history of diabetes in the
family yes
we can have mail less than 50 yes
history no mail no yes and you just go
through the process of getting every
single combination so if we can find
people who have these attributes and
know whether or not they had diabetes
then we're able to model reality this
means we're going to need one extra
column here and that is whether they had
diabetes this is why historical data is
important because we need to know if the
person ended up getting diabetes in
their lifetime we can just make data up
all right so we have a perfect
representation of reality now you can
think about this as traversing a bunch
of if statements so let me just make a
little line here if you look at the
first entry here of mail yes yes and no
you can represent that in an if
statement like so if sex is male and age
is less than 50 true and history true
then diabetes equals false and you could
just go one step farther and say else if
sex equals male age less than 50 history
I guess would be exhibition history to
invert it or you could say history
equals false whatever it doesn't really
matter I'm not gonna get into
programming concepts much right now the
point is you can go through and model
reality using a simple if statement and
you would say that is complete because
in our simple world we could know every
single person and whether or not they're
going to have diabetes using this
historical data so someone comes into
your office and they're a female they
are less than 50 and they have a family
history of diabetes you can know before
doing any kind of tests you can know
that they are going to have diabetes
this is fine for data analytics we could
do something like this of course but the
addictive part comes in when we do not
have a complete representation of
reality the machine learning aspect of
predictive data analytics is going to
find the best model even though we don't
have data for the entire representation
of reality so for example if we got rid
of these two rows now we only have a 80%
representation of reality so the machine
learning algorithm is going to try to
predict if someone came in as a female
they were not less than 50 and they did
have a family history what are they
going to have for diabetes that is what
machine learning is going to do and the
choice that it makes here the choice
that it makes here is the model once
once it makes all of the choices for all
of the possibilities where we do not
have enough data in our data set it
makes all those choices and has values
here that is what we call our model I
probably just made it four thousand
times more complicated and could have
just said hey it's just a representation
of reality based on some traversal of if
statements or something way simpler but
this is pretty good but why is this that
crazy well think about it when it comes
to possibilities let's draw that out for
just a second I'm gonna erase this if
statement so I can have some room we can
approach this by asking a simple
question how many models are there
available to choose from because there's
only so many representations of reality
in our data set well in this situation
there's going to be four so there's four
models and I'm going to write out all of
the possibilities if it wasn't for
machine learning we would have to choose
which model was most appropriate but
because we have a machine learning the
algorithm can choose which model is most
appropriate so what we do is we
a look at the two entries where we do
not have data for and we write those out
so it's a female and they're not less
than 50 and they do have a family
history because these are binary or
boolean attributes you could represent
them as true and false just as easily
there what I mean by that is there's
only two options female or male yes or
no and yes or no so this is one
combination and the output could be yes
and then we grab the other one F and and
and the output could be yes or we could
have the first row be yes and the second
row be no or we could have the first row
be yes the second row be no I'm running
out of space here so I'm gonna do it
over here so here are all the
possibilities 1 2 3 & 4 which one is the
most likely to be the good
representation of reality that is going
to require a lot of extra effort and
that's why we leave it up to the machine
learning algorithm but just make sure
that you take a second to understand why
there's four there's four because we
don't have to worry about any of these
rows we already have the data for this
so we we just disregard those and we
just look at the rows we don't have data
for there's two rows each with two
possible values so we could have where
they're both yes they're both no ones
yes ones no and then another one where
ones you have some ones no but they're
flipped so that represents all possible
models of our data oh that a lot so when
we write machine learning algorithms
they are going to pick the most likely
situation based on other data and those
are the insights that I'm talking about
that we're not able to see as easily as
a computer
that's all I got for this video it was
quite the long one so sorry about that
but hopefully I was helpful and I wasn't
trying to over complicate it all I am is
trying to get you guys a better
understanding of what a model really is
it is the most likely representation of
reality when we do not have enough of
data to represent reality entirely so
thank you guys for watching please be
sure to subscribe and I will see you in
the next video please
