want to simplify complex models and
solid works let me show you how to use
the combine command first ensure you
have a multi-body part create your main
body then add another body without
merging results so you have two separate
bodies inside each other go to the
direct editing Tab and select
combine you have three options add
subtract and common add merges the two
bodies into one subtract removes one
body from another select your main body
and then the body to subtract common
keeps only the overlapping volume
between the two bodies for example using
subtract you can create complex internal
cavities by cutting one body from
another great for over molded parts or
molds using common you can find the
shared volume which is useful for
calculating material for casting or
molding the combine command is a
powerful tool to manipulate multi-body
parts and streamline your design process
try it out in your next project
