what's going on guys John elder here for
Kota me.com and in this video I want to
talk about modules with Python
or in the last video we looked at
functions in this video I want to look
at modules but before we get started if
you like this video I want to see more
like it be sure to smash the like button
below subscribe to the channel and check
out coda me calm or I've dozens of
courses with hundreds of videos that
teach you to code use coupon code
youtube to get $22 off membership that's
all my courses videos and books for a
one-time fee just $27 which is insanely
cheap ok modules now this is sort of a
basic concept but it can also be more
advanced and we've been using modules
throughout this whole series you didn't
even realize it probably at the very
beginning we added this OS module we
imported it and then we use it to clear
the screen so that's a module that's how
you use them or they're very easy in
this video I want to go in a little bit
deeper and show you how to create your
own modules and how to use those some of
the things you can do and I also want to
look at some of the built-in modules
that come with Python so let's go ahead
and do that first real quick you just
pull up a web browser and type in I
don't know Python 3 module index you get
this right over the top it's this is the
Python documentation it's the Python
module index for Python 3 point seven
point three if it's a different version
number by the time you watch this video
python is always updating and stuff so
it's no big deal whatever it is just
take a look at the the latest one and
here we have this my module index and
this just lists all the modules that
come with Python and you can I mean that
means you can use them without
installing them like we did let's see
earlier here we just referenced them at
the top we imported it and we can use it
so let's take a quick look at some of
these if you scroll down here for
instance if we go down to o we can see
here's that OS one that we've been using
and what have we been doing with it
we've just been using OS dot system so
if I want to copy this and just search
for that I can see boom right here is OS
dot system if we click on it we can read
all about it what it does and all the
good stuff and you can see there's a lot
of stuff on this page right some of
these have a lot of information a lot of
things they can do some of them are very
shorten and small and there's not a
whole lot there to learn but they're all
kind of cool and I really recommend that
you sort of just spend some time going
through here and just looking just
seeing first off just kind of browse
through and see if anything grabs your
eye it's something you're interested in
if you need to use a calendar well
there's a calendar module maybe you want
to read about it you know let's see we
just kinda I'm just eyeballing this
there's a JSON if you're gonna be using
JSON JavaScript object notation just
mailbox
Pikul I've no idea what that is if you
want to use random numbers there's the
random module does all kinds of stuff
that helps you create random numbers
very cool
secrets for generating more secure
random numbers for SSH keys and things
like that I think SMTP this is an email
server I'll learn how to use that
statistics stat if you're into math
stuff very cool check out the statistics
and you see this statistics has mean
median I can get standard deviation and
variance very easily very very cool and
we already know how to use all of these
things you know to use for instance
statistics you just would come over to
your thing here and you would go import
statistics right and that's it now you
can start using it as per the
instructions on that screen so very
powerful stuff and very easy to use so
spend some time going through there read
through some of them and I recommend you
really find something that you're
interested in there and learn all about
it
everything there is if you're interested
in random numbers learn everything you
can on that page about random numbers
and start playing with it and that's you
know how we learn these things and very
very cool so those are the built in
modules like I said we can create our
own modules and it's actually really
really easy so I'm gonna just come up
here and create a new file
and let's create that name er we do a
namer what do we call it name it I will
do a name or create a name or module and
right off the bat I'm going to save this
as and we want to save this in the same
directory where our other file is we're
in this Python stuff directory and I'm
just going to call this name er dot PI
make sure this is Python
okay
looks like it did not get saved as
Python let's try it again file save as
delete this one name or dot I just type
it in alright there we go the colors
changed and now I know we did return
before but I'm just gonna print out
hello their name and of course we need
to pass in name alright so I'm just
gonna save this now this is just a
Python script we've just created right
just a regular Python file and it has
this function the name or function and
you know what I'm gonna change this to
name it
yeah name it
damnit I don't know save this now to use
this we can import this just like we've
imported everything all our other
modules import and we call namer the
name of the file right now we can call
from namer dot name it
then we can pass in John alright so from
namer which is the name of the file name
or dot pi we want to reference the name
it function just this right here and you
notice we've just put a period a dot
this is a very object-oriented type of
thing to do that you can do with Python
when you want to use something inside of
something else you just dot and then put
the name of the thing so if we save this
come back over to our command line and
run this it says hello there John and we
could you know change this to Bob save
it run it again hello there Bob now
that's one way to do it and that's
definitely a way to do it but this can
get a little confusing from namer
name it we can actually change this
around up here we can go from namer
import name it and then get rid of this
we don't need that so from this line
we're doing the same thing we're
importing but here we're importing
something specific in our case this name
it function or importing name it from
namer and now from now on we can just
reference it by referencing the function
name like we would always write so if we
save this actually let's change this to
Mary save it
run it hello there Mary very cool I'm
very easy now there's lots of different
ways you can bring in code from other
programs treating them as a module and
just importing them like that it's
probably the easiest in my mind and very
cool so you know
it's a good idea to break apart your
code so if you've got a big function
that's you know a lot of code you might
break that off into another file and
then just import it like you would any
module and it helps keep your code
cleaner you know and it's it's obvious
what we're doing here we're from namer
which is in this directory just
importing this name it function here
there's a placeholder variable we're
passing Mary in to that placeholder
variable and then running the function
and it returns this print
escape so pretty simple but very very
powerful and it's just sort of a way to
extend things and you know like I said
break up your code or you can use
pythons built-in functions or modules I
should say from that page we looked at
and be sure to take a look at that it's
at
this URL right here I'll put a link to
this in the video below or just go to
google and type in Python 3 module index
and you'll get this thing up a check it
out there's a lot of stuff in here and
some of its boring some of its stupid
most of it you'll never need but
helpless from manipulating HTML HTML
status codes very cool very interesting
stuff all kinds of cool stuff and like I
said read through these and something
might catch your eye something you're
interested in right look up pickle tools
see what the what in the world bad it's
let's see Hugh random that's a good one
running PI locate and run Python modules
without importing the first that's kind
of interesting
uh flex socket socket server sequel i3
is a database will probably look at that
later on that's it it's a basic database
that comes built in with Python it's
amazing it's not good for like big
projects but small to medium projects
where you need just a lightweight
database fantasticks built right in
right into Python really easy to use a
tkinter for creating graphical user
interfaces I've got a whole other course
on that look at my two youtube channel
you can check that out very cool turtle
demo wave web browser
easy-to-use controller for web browsers
that's probably pretty interesting hey
all kinds of cool stuff so those are
modules so that's all for this video if
you liked it be sure to smash the like
button below subscribe to the channel
check out Kodi me comm or you can use
coupon code youtube to get $22 offer
membership you so you pay just $27 to
access all my courses hundreds of videos
and the PDFs of all my best-selling
coding books join over 50,000 students
learning to code my name is john elder
from cody me calm and we'll see in the
next video
