so guys here you can see one more video
has been came and in today's video of
python I'm telling you about in the
python what are like in the video we
learn about the scope and in today's
video we are learning about in the
python what are modules if we don't know
what our modules in Python so in today's
video your whole concept will be clear
about it so see video start and please
hit the like button share Friend And
subscribe to my channel do don't forget
to all the notification B also so I miss
our future latest videos so now I do
take a long time so let's move to
computer screen and let's about in the
python botom module so let's move to
computer screen and let's do a coding
with Ling what is module consider a
module to be the same as a code Library
a file containing a set of function you
want to include in your application this
is called a module how to create a
module to create a module just save the
code you want in a file with a with the
file extension.
py in the example we save this code in
the file name by the name the file name
is my module. py let me paste it erase
it
now use a module now we can use the
module we just created by using the
import statement in this example we
import the module is and the module name
is my module and call the grating
function C now note that when you're
using the function from a module use the
syntax module name. function name
variables in module the module can
contain functions as already described
but also variables of all types arrays
dictionary subjects and
Etc in this example we save this code in
the file by mod. py in the
example and if I write print person one
save it and then it should give me name
John H 36 country Norway why because I
write that like country Norway AG 36 and
name John here you can see it example in
the example we import the mod name my
module and access the person one uh
dictionary and it is giving the error
because
okay and then it should give me okay my
okay when I go on my command prom and I
write like pip
install my module I've in the previous
video I have already told you about the
PIP uh uh pip what is the PIP so I do
not told you another
time and now like that you can do it so
now let's come on here naming a module
you can name the module by whatever you
like but it must have the file
extension. py renaming a module you can
create an allias when you port a module
by using the S keyword in this example
we create an allias for my module called
MX in this
example it not give you any such type of
output give you the error obviously
because I do not that such type of
things it give you the output buil-in
modules there are several buil-in
modules in Python which you cannot which
uh you can import whatever you like in
the example we import and use the
platform module in the example we import
and use the platform
model like that Windows it give me the
windows here you can see it why because
I like tell me the platform if you are
using the Mac it give you the mac and if
you are using a Linux give you L Linux
I'm using the windows to give me Windows
use the dir function there is some
built-in function to list all function
name of variables name in the in a
module the DI function list in the
example we list the all definite names
belonging to the platform module in this
example when I save it in it should give
me like that many thing have been G what
what type of these things it give me the
list of all defined names belonging to
the platform module note that the Dr
function can be used on all modules also
the one you once you create yourself
import from module you can choose to
import only part from a module by using
the from keyword in the example the
module name my module has a one function
and one dictionary paste it save it and
it should give me nothing output because
I do not that type of such thing it give
you the output
Import in the example we import only the
one person person one dictionary from
the module in the
example so it give me error but because
I do not write that type of thing it
give me the
output note that when you importing
using when you're importing and using
the from keybord do not use the module
name when referring to the elements in
the module example like that like that
here you can see it like person one8 not
my module. person8 it g the error and
here you can see it so you can see in
today's video of Pon I told you about
the Pyon module so I hope you can enjoy
this class if you enjoy so please hit a
like button share friend subscribe to my
channel don't forget to all the
notification Bell also so never miss our
future latest videos so but for today go
bye
