JavaScript event listeners are great
they allow you to execute code when the
user clicks a button when he enters text
into an input field when he hits a
specific key on his keyboard or when he
does a million other possible things we
can always make something happen as a
response today we're going to explore
event listeners by looking at real code
examples my name is Fabian and this is
coding to go the channel where we learn
the most relevant coding Concepts in
just a few minutes I'm assuming you
already have an HTML element that you
want to interact with like a button and
you also have a Javascript file that you
have imported properly in your HTML hat
using the defer attribute now to work
with this button we need to get it into
a JavaScript variable const button
equals document. getet element by ID my
button I basically search the document
for the element that has the ID my
button this ID has to be identical with
the ID that I assigned in HTML now we
can use button. add event listener this
is a JavaScript function this function
will receive two arguments the first one
is the event type we want to listen to
the event click make sure to write this
as a string in quotation marks now we
write comma to assign the second
argument which is the function we want
to call let's call it do something this
function needs to be defined somewhere
function do something for now we can
show an alert hello world and this code
should already work when we click on the
button there's a popup saying hello
world now what you do with this function
is completely up to you let's look at a
few examp examples you can create a
simple Cookie Clickers clone by having a
counter that increases every time you
click the button a very common use case
for event listeners would be to add and
remove classes on click because these
classes can have many different styles
that we applied in CSS doing that will
allow the user to change the design of
the website but click is by far not the
only event you need to know since you
can apply an event listener to any HTML
element they all have their own unique
events that you can listen to the most
basic event t that every element has our
click for clicking Mouse over for when
you hover over the element and mouse out
when the mouse leaves the element but
you can also detect keyboard inputs
first we apply an event listener to the
entire window the event that we are
waiting for is key down this event will
be triggered once any key on the
keyboard is clicked by the way you don't
have to write a separate function for
the second argument you can simply
Define your function directly inside the
parenthesis then you don't have to come
up with the name for it the interesting
thing here is that we actually using the
event object e this parameter is
something very special when working with
event listeners it is an object that
holds a lot of information about the
event that has been triggered let's
console lock this event object and see
what happens if I hit a key on my
keyboard on the browser console we can
see our keyboard event object this one
has a lot of properties the letter F
that I pressed now if you combine this
key code property with if conditions and
Loops you can already start developing
simple browser games just ask if a
certain key was pressed and then do
something as a response each key has a
unique key code that you can look up in
the documentation when you need it or
just console log the event. code and
watch it being printed in the console my
favorite event type is input because
this is by far the most useful next to
click the input event allows us to do
something whenever something happens
inside an input field select or text
area every single time you enter a
letter the input event is fired you can
use this code for example to create a
live display the heading will greet me
because I'm assigning the event. target.
value to the inner text of the heading
the property that I used to implement
this feature was the target the target
property contains the information on
what element the event was triggered
which is the input field pretty cool now
we know the first parameter is the event
type it controls when to do something
for example on click the second
parameter is the function that controls
what to do when the event is triggered
but there's also a third parameter which
is the options object this is an object
where can provide additional options for
the event listener now you can go down a
real rabbit hole and read everything
about these options but honestly you're
not going to use them very often the
most famous option that you might
actually use would be the Boolean once
if you set this to true then the event
listener can only be triggered one time
the rest of the events will be ignored
this was coding to go and if you learned
something new today like and subscribe
to support our Channel you also might
want to check out this video right here
