today we're going to talk about some
cyber security skills I believe everyone
should have first thing on the list is
going to be ioc's or indicators of
compromise this means identifying what
exactly is the source of a Cyber attack
it could be a website like in this case
a file on your computer as with all of
my other videos we're going to go
through this with a real example so this
is actually a malware website that we're
just going to visit but hey how do I
know if this is malware at that brings
us to the second cyber security skill
and that is going to be investigation
the ability to perform research and dig
out the details behind something let's
say you visit this website because a
friend on Discord sent you this link
first the website seems overly
simplistic and we're going to look a
little bit deeper in The Code by just
pressing F12 and if we expand the head
as you can see we've got the description
we've got reference to GitHub and we've
also got some references to Discord but
not everyone can understand it HTML but
what you can do is you can always use
websites like scam advisor and simply
look up whatever website you're visiting
so let's say we wanted to do a deeper
dive into planis therapy.org it has a
trust score of 56 so if we scroll down
it's got a valid SSL certificate which
we can also check from here with the
nice lock but it's also got a paid
service to hide its identity now this is
not uncommon a lot of websites do that
but it also doesn't have many visitors
and it's only been registered very
recently now this is all data that's
publicly available through the Ian
record now on the contrary if we search
for a website like the PCC
channel.com you're going to see
instantly that we have a trust score of
100 so you know you can safely visit us
next against our judgment we're actually
going to download the malware which
brings us to malware analysis there was
a time when malware analysis was really
difficult and you would need an expert
in bite code Assembly Language to do it
but that has changed so once we extract
this belligerent exe put it on our
desktop we can analyze it quite easily
by simply going to a site like hybrid
analysis picking an operating system
that we're running and generate a public
report and within a few seconds we get a
verdict that this is indeed malicious
now you could use a variety of services
including vars total but as you can see
it's not always a reliable indicator of
whether or not a fall is malicious if
you're just Rel on the detections but
you could also skip the online services
and use something like P Studio drag and
drop the file there and look for things
in red basically things like the program
name being Windows update assistant an
invalid certificate and an overlay on
the exe might be suspicious the next
skill I'm going to talk about is
forensics which is the ability to take a
deeper look and what's happening inside
a system you don't have to use Advanced
tools like volatility but everyone can
download Microsoft's CIS internal Suite
from CIS internal.com and learn to use a
couple of basic tools like process
Explorer and TCP view process Explorer
is going to show you everything that's
executing on your system all of the
processes all of the dlls everything
that's loaded along with scan results
and vars total if you select it in
options TCP view on the other hand is
going to show you every connection that
your computer is making to a remote
address and using the first skill
investigation you can actually figure
out what these addresses are so for
instance if we now run this file that we
got from the website and it's running
all of these uh different command line
tools and we can see that this
particular process that we just launched
has established a connection with this
IP address it's not really showing us
any UI but it's connecting and
communicating with a remote address
which suggests some kind of Trojan
Behavior similarly this particular
process is loading a lot of DLS some of
which are being detected views like this
can look quite intimidating to the
average user but you have to remember
this is all graphic user interface
everything is written so you can read
the process name you can read the
description and over time you're going
to familiarize yourself with what runs
on your system by default so that when
you run something new you're going to be
able to spot it instantly as time goes
on I think the basic skills of being
able to investigate and verify what
you're looking at going to be more and
more important now I hope you found this
video helpful please like and share it
if you did now this video is sponsored
by one of my favorite cyber security
tools which is malware bites a
full-fledged lightweight antivirus
program that has routinely demonstrated
good detection capabilities in our tests
as well as massively improved their UI
recently and if we look at settings it
has everything from ransomware and
exploit protection to the ability to
block pentesting attempts many of you
may have heard of malware bites as a
second opinion scanner something you use
to remove malware if your system is
infected but the brand new malware bites
is actually a full-on AV replacement and
stops malware in real time they recently
updated their user interface as you can
see it looks very slick and dark mode
we've done independent tests of this in
the past which you can find on the
channel and they've shown consistent
Improvement in the last few years so
show them some love check them out using
the link in description thank you all so
much for watching this is Leo from the
PC security Channel and as always stay
informed stay
secure
for
