I came across a resource that shows the
most popular and fastest growing open
source security projects on GitHub in
this explained video we're going to look
at the top five most popular projects
from that very list and at the end of
the video I'll share the link so they
can see all the top 100 projects now
before we get started it's interesting
to note that the most commonly used
language for these projects by quite a
big margin is python after that it's a
close race between go and JavaScript and
finally C and typescript now the
projects are even broken down by
category and the top two are identity
and application security after that we
have Cloud security and then network
security and finally vulnerability
management but with that out of the way
let's go ahead and dive in with the
fifth most popular open source security
tool which is called psyllium psyllium
is a cloud security tool that provides
secure network connectivity between app
Services deployed using containers like
Docker or kubernetes psyllium consists
of an agent that's running on all the
cluster nodes and servers in your
environment it provides networking
security and observability which is a
hard work to say to the workloads
running on that node workloads can be
containerized or running natively on the
system it's really not surprising to see
container in kubernetes projects in the
top five because of how many
organizations are using containers the
next tool in spot number four is mitm
proxy which stands for man in the middle
proxy if you're familiar with man of the
middle attacks then you probably know
where this is going this is an
interactive intercepting HTTP proxy for
penetration testers and software
developers that's capable of supporting
TLS connections this project also
includes a web-based interface called
mitm web and a command line version
called mitm dump which is just like TCP
dump but for HTTP once installed we can
use it to intercept requests modify
requests replay requests Etc so this is
essentially a much more portable and
simpler version of using the burp or
Olas zap proxy feature the primary
benefit here is how flexible of a tool
this is which means that you can use it
for a variety of use cases and obviously
a lot of people see that value because
this project has 31 000 stars now this
next one is a tool that I'm sure you've
probably heard of if you've ever worked
with web applications or anything
requiring TLS openssl is a tool that is
and has been massively popular because
it's a cryptography and TLS toolkit that
you can use to create and manage
certificates and encryption of all kinds
so in short you can think of this as a
Swiss army knife for cryptographic tasks
testing and Analysis now in the second
spot we have a Secrets management tool
from hashicorp called Vault Vault fits
in the identity category because it's a
tool for creating and managing Secrets
encrypting as a service and access
management you can use it for API Keys
passwords certificates tokens and a
whole bunch more you can even use it to
generate Dynamic instead of static
Secrets which means that you can use it
to generate secrets on demand for things
like databases or even Cloud resources
just to name a couple of examples now I
made a full video explained meaning what
vault is and how it works in my
explained Series so check that video out
if you're interested finally in spot
number one and I don't think too many of
us are going to be surprised by this one
we have the metasploy framework
Metasploit is an exploitation framework
that's used for pen testing and that's
maintained by rapid 7 and The Open
Source Community anyone who has any
remote interest in pen testing will have
heard of metasploits Because the
Internet is flooded with tutorials on
how to use this framework and for very
good reason it's a super powerful and
impressive framework that can do a whole
lot it's so powerful in fact that you
can even use it to write your very own
exploits or use Community exploits and
if you're interested in learning more
about metasploits my recommendation
would be to start with their
documentation and then after that check
out YouTube tutorials because there are
plenty out there to get you going okay
so as promised here's the entire list of
100 different top projects at open
source security index.io by the way this
list is constantly changing even from
the time that I found this resource to
the time that I recorded this video two
of the top five moved around so by the
time that you watch this the top five
may have changed if you enjoyed this
video please like the video and
subscribe for more content just like
this and then let me know in the
comments below which of these tools you
hadn't heard of but that you're now very
interested in learning more about thanks
for watching and see you in the next
episode
