hello everyone and welcome to today's
session on top 5 cyber security tools
that you should be aware of do you know
friends that a cyber security software
is required for companies or individual
cyber security and privacy
cyber security is a mean of protecting
network system application from cyber
attacks it is employed in order to
prevent illegal data access cyber
attacks and identity theft so the first
tool that we are going to study about is
kali linux kali linux is among the most
common tools used in cyber security this
operating system consists of range of
tools that are used in security auditing
network and system scanning for
vulnerabilities one of the main
advantages of this platform is that
cyber security expert with different
levels of understanding can use it
making it an ideal choice for even an
entry level professional the second tool
that we are going to discuss is
metasploit metasploit has an excellent
collection of tools that are perfect for
penetration testing professionals often
use it to meet a wide range of security
objectives such as discovering
vulnerabilities of system and networks
designing strategies to improve the
company's cyber security defenses and
many more
let's discuss the third tool that is
johnny ripper security experts use john
the ripper to test the strength of
passwords it designs helps in exposing
weak password that pose security threats
to a particular system in the beginning
it was only designed for the unix
platform but the new version allow it to
work on the other operating systems as
well such as stars windows open beams
and etc the next tool that we are going
to talk about is wireshark
wireshark was earlier called ethereal it
is among the best tools for cyber
security based on the console it is a
packet sniffer tool that allows
professional to allows network protocols
and sniff real-time networks in search
of any vulnerabilities that can be
exploited moreover it collects necessary
information related to the levels of
network traffic and the last tool that
we are going to discuss is nikto nekto
is an open source software tool that is
used in cyber security to determine
vulnerabilities in the web and take
necessary actions
professionals use this tool to scan for
identifying managing web vulnerabilities
nico's database consists of
approximately 6400 distinct types of
security threats
