so have you ever wondered what kind of
information is being sent back and forth
between your computer and the internet
what applications are reaching out and
what data is being sent perhaps you're
connecting to things you're unaware of
maybe you're even hacked and your
computer is connecting to attackers the
way to answer all of these questions is
going to be using a tool called War
shark which gives you an inside view of
what's happening on your network of
course if you're not used to looking at
packets this is going to look very
intimidating but I'm going to make it
really simple so let's start at the
beginning so when you open this
application for the first time after
install it's going to show you a list of
all the different network interfaces
that are on your computer and ask you
which one you want to capture as you can
see here we have two options where we
have a little graph here that shows you
something is happening some kind of
movement is taking place this is the
ethernet so it's the ethernet port on my
computer through which I'm currently
connected to the internet but if you're
connected via Wi-Fi make sure you select
that instead now once this is open as
you can see our window is being flooded
with a lot of information and that is
because this is how the computer works
nowadays we constantly are sending
information back and forth from our
computer to the network a lot of it is
background applications but it's really
difficult to make sense of this so if I
go ahead and open up my browser and
let's say we just do a simple Google
search let's just do a Google search for
Yark now as we're doing that if we go
over to Yark you can see that we have a
ton of stuff and among that we can see
some websites that appear linked to
Google and we can click on pretty much
any of these things to see the
information that we're sending and I
know what you're thinking Leo this is
not English this is gibberish and that's
what you would normally find if you
looked at a random packet a packet is
kind of like a package you get from
Amazon it's a bunch of data grouped
together to be sent over the internet
and if we see on the left we can see the
description of it so we've got
1292 bytes bytes are a unit of data and
just like grams for weight but there are
different ways in which information can
be sent and that is going to be defined
by the protocol so for example DNS means
domain name system so this is
information that is being sent out to
get the address of a computer or a
server to communicate with based on a
name so let's say you want to reach
Google so your computer says I want to
reach Google where can I find it the
domain name system basically gives it
the address of the computer closes to
you where Google is serving data and
that little bit of information is going
to be super useful to us in simplifying
this view because right now we're seeing
all the different protocols through
which communication is happening so for
example if we take a look at tlsv1.2 to
which means the information is jumbled
up for security and that is why it looks
like gibberish just like what you would
see in a file encrypted by ransomware
but if we go ahead and select the search
filter and type in
DNS boom now it makes a lot more sense
at least the top bit cuz you can start
to read the names of different websites
so we have google.com we have
msn.com and the various subdomains that
come with it we even have gamep pass.com
we have have Windows update and I'm sure
this is now starting to make sense and
on the left we can see the source
address and the destination address
which is kind of like a street address
or like your postcode but on the
internet but most importantly simply
reading the domain name here like game
pass.com can tell you that your computer
made a request to connect to a Game Pass
server similarly I can see Windows
trying to sneakily download updates in
the background it loves doing that
especially when I'm low on battery and
in order to demonstrate that this works
we can simply go ahead and open a
website so let's say we go to the PC
security
channel.com so if we go ahead and visit
my very own website you're going to see
the NY shark it is going to pop up as a
new request so over here you can see the
PCC channel.com referenced various times
but the interesting thing is you're also
going to see references to other
websites like youtube.com even though we
never really VIs listed YouTube and this
is where it gets interesting so the
reason you're seeing youtube.com being
loaded even though we never visited it
is because if we take a look at this
website in the background you have
YouTube videos so I do have YouTube
videos Linked In order to get these
thumbnails and the information about
these videos so you can see them your
computer also automatically has to
connect to youtube.com so let's say a
website was trying to track you or
connect you to a third party ad website
guess what you would see requests to
that advertising website right here so
for example let's say we go to
cnn.com I know it's cringe I'm sorry as
you can see we do get
www.cnn.com but along with that there is
a long list of websites and subdomains
so media. CNN.com also youtube.com
because they have YouTube videos Cookie
law.org jsd deliver. net turner.com
medium.
ntv.io bitm moving.com Warner media
cdn.com so you can already tell how this
tool is super useful in understanding
what's actually behind a website
similarly if we go to cet.com and open
up War shark as you can see we are
getting queries to ad tech. redventures
doio so this is probably a thirdparty
advertising company that that is
embedded within this website so I think
you're starting to see the investigative
power of this tool even if you're simply
looking into DNS requests and nothing
else now what if you wanted to know
what's happening in your computer in the
background well all you have to do is
just keep it running and observe the
traffic coming in so if I do a contrl f
and look for specific strings for
example let's say I look for Discord as
you can see we are reaching out to
discord.com and that's because I have
Discord running so in the background
it's going to be communicating similarly
if we try Microsoft you're going to see
a ton of hits for Microsoft exchanging
data in the background if you have
Spotify running it's going to show
Spotify and I'm only doing a search to
speed this up but what's going to happen
is as those Communications are taking
place it is going to pop up at the
bottom so this is again a good way to
know what kind of communications your
computer is doing what sites are you
connecting to what applications you
might have running in the background
even if they're not visible necessarily
Within Windows cuz a lot of time an
application may be running as a service
in which case you're not going to see it
on your computer or even see it in task
manager but it might still be connecting
to websites in the background so I hope
this helps you get started with your
investigating Journey with wi shark you
can try it right now and see what kind
of connections your computer is making
and the best part is you can do this
regardless of whether you're using
Windows Mac or Linux would love to hear
in the comments if you found anything on
your computer that surprised you now
I've obviously been using using this
tool a lot in my past videos so I wanted
to do a quick tutorial so everybody has
these basic skills and can understand
what I'm talking about when I'm using it
like and share this video If you enjoyed
it and do let me know in the comments if
you'd like to see more videos like this
by the way a big thank you to malware
bites for sponsoring this video and some
of our other educational videos recently
to Showcase their newest version of
malware bites premium as you can see
they have a very slick looking dark mode
very easy to use user interface many of
you may know them as the legendary
second opinion scanner but now of course
they have realtime protection along with
ransomware protection and exploit
mitigation stuff personally I really
like the fact that they have an option
to block pent testing attacks I always
turn this on in case somebody's trying
to connect to a command and control
server it's going to block stuff like
that now it also gives you the option of
having an integrated VPN so if you're
wondering well if I can see all those
websites in war shark anyone with
control of the Wi-Fi network can and
that is where this comes in handy so if
you turn on your VPN all of that
information will now be hidden making
your browsing activity invisible to your
ISP and once again this is a
full-featured security solution it
replaces Windows Defender and you can
check it out right now by going to link
in description getting a free troll
you'll have access to exactly this of
course we've done independent tests of
malor byes in the past so feel free to
look that up on our YouTube channel and
we will be testing this more in the
future but for now just wanted to thank
them for sponsoring our educational
content and showing the appreciate the
cyber security awareness that we bring
so do check them out using link in
description thank you all so much for
watching really appreciate it don't
forget to subscribe to our Channel we're
super close to 500,000 subscribers so
let's get there this is Leo and as
always stay informed stay secure
