hello everyone welcome back to our
Channel today we have an incredibly
important topic to discuss especially in
this day and age where online threats
are constantly evolving we are diving
deep into the world of cyber security
and we will be talking about the top
cyber security tools for 2024 so whether
you are individual concerned about your
Online safety or a business looking to
protect your digital assets you are in
the right place so let's get started and
before starting if you are an aspiring
cyber security professional looking for
online training and certifications from
prestigious universities and in
collaboration with leading experts to
enhance your credibility then search no
more simply learn postgraduate program
in cyber security from MIT University in
collaboration with EC Council should be
your right choice this course is
designed to accommodate a diverse range
of Learners and this course requires
just a bachelor's degree with a 50%
average and no prior programming
experience and OnePlus year of work
experience is preferred for more details
you can use the link in the description
box below now let's get started with the
increasing Reliance on digital
Technologies our privacy and safety are
at risk more than ever before cyber
security tools play a vital role in
protecting us from potential online
threats so we'll start with objectives
of cyber security tools so cyber sec
security tools have various objectives
and they're designed the first is to
analyze infrastructure data to detect
anomalies and vulnerabilities and the
next objective is to automate cyber
security workflows for efficiency and
then we have build secure webbased
services and then monitor network
operations and user activities so these
are the objectives of cyber security
tools now we'll see the considerations
for choosing cyber security tools
choosing the right cyber security tools
for your specific needs is crucial here
are some key considerations When
selecting these tools number one is
scalability ensured the tool can protect
many endpoints and devices across a wide
parameter and then we have integration
it should seamlessly integrate with your
existing systems and the next
consideration is opt for tools with
reliable support as cyber security is
ever evolving and the next consideration
is purpose built look for tools designed
to address different scenarios
effectively and the next is
compatibility the tool should work with
various device variants operating
systems and Cloud vendors so these are
the considerations for choosing cyber
security tool now let's dive into the
exciting part that is the top service
security tools for 2024 so these tools
are designed to keep you safe in the
digital world so first we will start
with solar wind security event manager
the solar wind security event manager is
a powerful network monitoring platform
with realtime packet analysis
capabilities and dynamic baselines to
detect genuine performance deviations
and now we'll see the key features for
the solar wind security event manager so
the first key feature is smarter
scalability solar wind security event
manager offers scalable Solutions
suitable for large environments whether
your organization has numerous endpoints
or diverse devices spread across a white
parameter this tool can adapt and
protect your network effectively then we
have multivendor network monitoring this
feature allows you to monitor not only
your network but also a variety of
vendors ensuring that you can keep an
eye on all aspects of your digital
infrastructure this is essential in
today's interconnected and multivendor
network environments and then we have
advanced alerting system solar wind
security event manager provides an
advanced alerting system that helps you
detect and respond to security threats
swiftly by setting up customized alerts
you can proactively address potential
issues before they escalate into major
Bridges and then we have monitor end to
end Network understanding the entire
network path is crucial for identifying
bottlenecks vulnerabilities and
potential threats solar winds tool
enables you to monitor end to end
Network Parts ensuring that you have
full visibility into your Network's
performance and the next next key
feature is cross tech network data
correlation with cross tech network data
correlation you can connect the dots
between various Network elements and
pinpoint the root cause of issues
quickly this capability is a game
changer when it comes to troubleshooting
and responding to security incidents so
this was all about the first tool that
is solar wind security event manager now
moving to second tool that is wire shock
it's an open source Network protocol
analyzer that helps professional
identify network security weaknesses by
capturing and analyzing data packets in
real time now we'll see the key features
of wi shock so the first key feature is
crossplatform compatibility wi shock is
a crossplatform tool which means it can
be installed on a variety of operating
systems making it accessible to a wide
range of users then we have open source
architecture being open source means
that wi shark is continually improved by
a global community of Developers this
openness also facilitates easy
integration with other cyber security
tools and systems and then the next
feature is realtime data capture and
Analysis v shark provides real-time
packet capture and Analysis allowing you
to monitor network activity as it
happens this feature is invaluable for
identifying anomalies security threats
and performance issues and then the next
feature is decryption protocol support
it supports decryption for mult multiple
Network protocols and various output
formats enabling you to understand
encrypted traffic and identify potential
security
vulnerabilities and now moving to the
next tool that is the third tool and
that is ax script so ax script premium
offers Advanced encryption features in a
userfriendly package ensuring your data
remains secure it supports various
platforms making it convenient for users
and now we'll see the key feat features
of ax script the number one is 256bit
encryption a excript employs strong
256bit encryption which is virtually
unbreakable with current technology this
level of encryption ensures that your
data remains secure and confidential and
the next is userfriendly interface one
of EX script standout feature is its
userfriendly interface encrypting and
decrypting files is as simple as
dragging and dropping them into the ax
script window this accessibility makes
it usable for users and all technical
levels and the next is secure file
deletion a excript goes beyond
encryption by offering secure file
deletion this feature ensures that when
you delete an encrypted file it becomes
virtually impossible to recover
providing an additional layer of data
protection and then the next feature is
gross platform compatibility a script
supports various operating systems in
including Windows Mac OS Android and iOS
this versatility allows you to encrypt
and decrypt files seamlessly across
different devices and platforms and then
the next feature is user support a
script provides user support through
email forums and even second level
support while chat if you encounter any
issues or have questions about using the
tool there's a support system in place
to assist you and then the next feature
is public key cryptography a scrypt
offers the option to use public key
cryptography which allows you to
securely share encrypted files with
others only those with the appropriate
decryption key can access the files
enhancing collaboration while
maintaining security so why excript
matters data protection a script is a
crucial tool for safeguarding sensitive
data whether you are an individual
protecting personal files or a business
securing confidential documents a script
ensures that your information remains
private it and now moving on to the
fourth tool that is Kali Linux Kali
Linux is a widely used cyber security
tool with over 300 utilities for
scanning Network systems it's a great
for both experts and entry-level
professionals making it versatile and
effective and now moving to key features
for Kali Linux the number one feature is
versatile tool set Kali Linux boast an
extensive collection of over 300 cyber
security tools making it incredibly
versatile for various tasks including
network analysis vulnerability
assessment and penetration testing and
then we have user friendly interface
despite its powerful capabilities K
Linux offers a userfriendly interface
making it accessible even to those with
limited Linux experience it Manu Damen
navigation simplifies and simplifies the
process of selecting and using tools and
the next is customizable Ki Linux allows
users to customize and tailor the
distribution to their specific needs
this means you can install additional
tools or remove unnecessary ones to
create streamline and efficient
environment and then we have regular
updates to stay ahead of emerging
threats and vulnerabilities Ki Linux is
continuously updated the development
team ensures that the tools within the
distribution are up to date with the
latest security patches and improvements
and then we have wide device
compatibility Ki Linux is compatible
with a wide range of hardware and can be
installed on various devices including
laptops desktops and even Raspberry Pi
devices this flexibility ensures that
you can take your cyber security toolkit
with you wherever you go and the next we
have is Community Support Ki Linux has a
vibrant and active community of users
and developers who contribute to its
growth and provide support through
forums this community aspect makes it
easier to learn and troubleshoot any
issues you may encounter now moving to
the fifth tool that is air crack NG air
crack NG is an open-source suit of
Wireless tools used for analyzing Wi-Fi
network security weaknesses it's a
comprehensive Solution that's entirely
free now we'll see and learn some of the
key features of air crack NG the first
feature is open source architecture air
crack NG is a open source software which
means it's freely available for anyone
to use modify and contribute to its
development this open nature forers a
community of users and developers
continuously working to enhance its
capabilities and the next is
compatibility aircrack NG is versatile
in terms of compatibility while it
primarily works on Linux it has also
been adapted to run on other operating
systems including Windows Mac OS free
bstd open bstd net bstd Solaris and even
Ecom Station 2 this compatibility
ensures that users from various
backgrounds and preferences can harness
its power now the next feature is suit
of programs airra NG comprises a suit of
programs each serving a specific purpose
in wireless network security some of the
notable components include air Decap NG
aerod dump NG air T NG so these command
line tools allow for intricate scripting
and customization making air crack NG a
valuable asset for professionals seeking
to fine-tune their wireless security
efforts
and the next feature is Wi-Fi security
assessment aircrack NG is particularly
adapt at assessing the security of Wi-Fi
networks and the next is password
cracking one of the standout features of
air crack njs is is its ability to crack
Wi-Fi passwords while it's essential to
use its capability responsibly and
legally the next is Community Support
airrack NG boast an active and engaged
user community so this was the features
of aircrack engine now moving on to the
tool six that is ncto so ncto is an
excellent open- source tool focused on
scanning the web for vulnerabilities
covering both web servers and networks
it's continuously updated to help users
identify threats now moving on to see
the key features of ncto number one is
comprehensive scanning nct's database
consists of approximately 6,400 distinct
types of security threats covering both
web servers and networks it scans
websites for a wide range of
vulnerabilities including outdated
software misconfigured servers and known
security issues the next feature is web
server and network focus ncto is
specialized in scrutinizing web servers
and the networks they operate on it
isn't just look for issues on the
surface it digs deep into the servers
configuration to identify potential
weaknesses the next is continuous
updates the tool is continuously updated
to keep Pace with emerging threats and
vulnerabilities the next is lightweight
and versatile ncto is a lightweight web
application vulnerability scanner making
it easy to use and integrate into
existing security workflows the next is
plug-in system ncto plug-in system
allows for easy extensibility new
plugins can be created to make it
compatible with different systems making
it adaptable to a wide variety of web
server setups so how ncto Works ncto
operates by sending HTTP request to the
Target web server and analyzing the
responses it receives it looks for
specific patterns or characteristics
that indicate vulnerabilities nto
doesn't exploit vulnerabilities but
rather provides a comprehensive report
highlighting potential issues allowing
administrators to take appropriate
action so this was all about the ncto
tool now moving to the seventh tool that
is force point force point is a tool
used to customize sdon helping track and
prevent malicious activities within
networks it offers a high level of
customization and real-time content
analysis now going to see the key
features of this tool the number one is
high level security Force Point provides
a high level of security across various
applications and resources within your
network the next is seamless integration
the tool seamlessly integrates with
different network components ensuring
that it doesn't disrupt your existing
infrastructure and the next is
customization one of the standout
feature of force point is its
customization capabilities users can
tailor policies fingerprints and
classifiers to meet their specific
spefic security requirements the next is
realtime content analysis Force Point
offers real-time content analysis and
classification this means that it can
identify and classify content flowing
through your network in real time the
next is gross portfolio intelligence
fource Point leverages cross portfolio
and third party Global share threat
intelligence networks this means that it
has access to a vast pool of threat data
making it more effective in identifying
and mitigating emerging threats so this
was all about the force Point tool now
moving on to the eighth tool that is
nessus professional tool nessus
professional is a handy vulnerability
scanner that's updated daily with new
thread data it's an essential tool for
improving Network Integrity now we'll
see the key features of this tool the
number one is remote scanning tool
nessus professional is a remote scanning
tool that excels in highspeed asset
Discovery the next is daily thread data
updates but one of the standout features
of nesses professional is its commitment
to staying up to date with the
everchanging threat landscape and the
next is ease of deployment and use
unlike some complex cyber security tools
nesses professional is known for its
ease of deployment and user friendliness
and the next is support from tenable
expert vulnerability research team with
ness's professional you are not just
getting a software tool you are gaining
access to the expertise of table's
vulnerability research team this ensures
that you you have top not support and
access to the latest insights into the
cyber security landscape and the next
feature is gross platform compatibility
nessus professional is compatible with
various operating systems including Mac
Linux and windows this broad
compatibility makes it accessible for a
wide range of users and organizations
and this was all for this tutorial hope
you guys found it informative and
helpful if you are an aspiring cyber
security professional looking for online
training and certifications from prestig
universities and in collaboration with
leading experts and to enhance your
credibility then search no more simply
learn Advanced executive programm in
cyber security in collaboration with
npci should be your right choice with
this program you can transform your
career in 6 months for India specific
region only this course provides a high
engagement learning experience and real
world applications and is designed for
individuals who want to start a new and
more fulfilling career and now let's
take a minute to hear from our Learners
who have experienced massive success in
their careers hi I'm Phillip I'm 61
years old and last year I upskilled with
simply learns postgraduate program in
cyber security after working 30 years in
the it sector and various different
profiles I'm happy to tell you that I
was able to clear and pass my cissp and
ccsp certification exams on the first
attempt after taking the course course I
must say was packed with practical
examples it was led by highly skilled
certified instructors with many
companies before security analyst and
architect on a contract basis but I
needed some stability which I got with
the job I just started with impis as a
cyber security consultant happened on a
first and if you like this session then
like share and subscribe if you have any
questions then you can drop them in the
comment section below thanks for
watching and stay tuned for more from
Simply loan staying ahead in your career
requires continuous learning and
upscaling whether you're a student
aiming to learn today's top skills or a
working professional looking to advance
your career we've got you covered
explore our impressive catalog of
certification programs in cuttingedge
domains including data science cloud
computing cyber security AI machine
learning or digital marketing designed
in collaboration with leading
universities and top corporations and
delivered by industry experts choose any
of our programs and set yourself on the
path to Career Success click the link in
the description to know
more hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learn YouTube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos to nerd up and get certified
click here
