hello everyone welcome to this session
of blockchain wallet my name is saurav
and i'm part of the simply learn team so
let's get started and let's see what's
in store for us today so what's in it
for you today we're gonna understand why
do we need blockchain wallet what is a
blockchain wallet how do these wallet
work what are the different types of
blockchain wallets their comparisons and
demo on the usage of these blockchain
wallets and we will try to do certain
transactions using these wallets now
before these blockchain wallets came
into existence what were the means in
order for us to do the transactions and
what were the drawbacks in the old days
the transactions with whatever medium
and channels we had the problems were
that the transactions were slow and
banks were the central point of failure
basically any transaction which has to
go through has to go through some
intermediary channels and has to pass
through certain intermediaries like bank
which makes them a single point of
failure also there are issues in keeping
track of all accounts and balances data
get jeopardized manipulated or even get
corrupted across
multiple systems where the accounts and
balances are maintained now here comes
into existence what is called as
blockchain wallet now what is blockchain
wallet a blockchain wallet is a
cryptocurrency wallet that allows users
to manage different kind of
cryptocurrencies for example bitcoin
ethereum etc now a blockchain wallet
helps exchanging of funds easily
transactions are secure as they are
cryptographically signed the wallet is
accessible from web or mobile devices
and the privacy and identity of the user
is maintained so therefore a blockchain
wallet provides all the features which
are necessary for a safe and secure
transfer and exchange of funds between
different parties a blockchain wallet is
a typical cryptocurrency wallet that
allows users to manage cryptocurrencies
it is very similar to the process of
sending or receiving money through
paypal or any other gateway which you
use today but now you can use
cryptocurrency instead similar to paypal
which you're using for making
transactions with your fiat currency now
let's take a look at the ecosystem of
blockchain wallets here are certain
examples like electrum blockchain.info
jaxx mycelium samurai and bitcoin paper
wallet these are just to name a few
blockchain wallets which are existing in
the market but there are many more based
on the requirement you have based on the
security you require and based on the
kind of wallet which suffices your need
so we will see what are the
categorizations of these kind of wallets
are now how do blockchain wallets work
let's take a look so before we move on
to how blockchain wallets work let's
understand what a private and a public
key is and how are these keys related to
a blockchain wallet now whenever you
create a blockchain wallet you are also
provided a private and a public key
which is associated with your wallet now
let's take an example in order to
understand this imagine a person knowing
your email address is sending you an
email so in our regular day-to-day
activity if we want to receive an email
from someone we give him or her our
email id and expect an email from them
now what if an unknown person is able to
send emails through my account so i am
giving my email address for receiving
email but when i am disclosing my email
id i am not assuming that someone will
be able to send emails through my
account because then for that he has to
be aware of my email account password so
knowing your email address will not give
a person the ability to send an email
from your account you are not giving
your password to the person to send an
email you are just giving the email
address to send an email from a
particular email address an individual
has to be aware of the password
associated with it now blockchain wallet
follows a similar process using public
key and private key both together public
key is similar to your email address so
basically whenever your wallet is
generated a public key is generated you
can share that public key with anyone in
order to receive funds private key is
top secret it's similar to your password
it should not get hacked or you should
not disclose it to anyone and you use
this private key to spend your funds so
now instead of sending an email imagine
you want to transfer money to your
friend this transfer process is done
through your blockchain wallet with
blockchain wallets you can now send and
receive cryptocurrencies so as i said a
blockchain wallet has two keys a public
key and a private key public key is
shared with everyone just like an email
address private key is just like your
password which should be kept secret
with the sender so with blockchain
wallet no one will be able to send
crypto coins just like emails through
your public key until they know your
private key but if someone gets access
to your private key there is a high
possibility that your account is hacked
and you might end up losing all the
cryptocurrency deposits in your account
now let's take a look what are the
typical features of a blockchain wallet
it's easy to use it's just like any
other software or a wallet which you use
for your day-to-day transactions it is
highly secure it is just a matter of you
securing your private key and it allows
instant transactions across geographies
barrier-free without intermediaries and
also these transactions charges you low
cost fee and these wallets help you do
transactions across multiple
cryptocurrencies so you can make
payments across cryptocurrencies which
helps you do easy currency conversions
now let's talk about what are the
different type of blockchain wallets now
basically there are two types of
blockchain wallets based on the private
keys one is hot wallet and another is
the cold wallet hot wallets are like
normal wallets which we carry for
day-to-day transactions and these
wallets are user-friendly cold wallets
cold wallets are similar to a vault
where cryptocurrencies are stored with a
high level of security now let's take a
look at the differences hot wallets are
online wallets through which
cryptocurrencies can be transferred
quickly they are available online on
internet example coinbase
blockchain.info cold wallets they are
digital offline wallets where the
transactions are signed offline and then
later disclosed online so they are not
maintained on the cloud on the internet
they are maintained offline to have high
security and the examples of cold wallet
are trezor and ledger now in case of hot
wallets private keys are stored in the
cloud for faster transfer in case of
cold wallets private keys are stored in
a separate hardware which are
disconnected from the internet or the
cloud or are stored in a paper-based
document hot wallet they are easy to
access available online 24 7. it can be
accessed through desktop or mobile but
has a risk of unrecoverable theft when
hacked cold wallets this method of
transaction helps in protecting the
wallet from unauthorized access from
hacking and other online vulnerabilities
now the wallet can be further
distinguished on these criterias there
can be software wallets they can be
hardware wallets which are like kind of
usb driven and you plug into your usb
drive and your hardware wallet can be
used or they are a typical paper based
wallet where you print your public key
and a private key on a paper and keep it
in a secure place let's talk about
software wallet a software wallet is an
application that is downloaded on a
device either it could be a desktop or a
mobile or it could be a web-based wallet
which can be accessed online now here
are certain examples dax bread wallet
and copay are the popular software
wallets so software wallet can be
further categorized into desktop wallet
online or we can call it web wallets or
mobile wallets now desktop wallets are
like cold wallets in which the private
keys are stored in cold servers
basically the desktop wallets the
private keys are stored in your desktop
you can unplug it from the internet do
some offline transactions and then bring
it back online now in case the main
server is lost then a cold server
basically a desktop is used as a backup
server these wallets can be downloaded
on any computer but can only be accessed
from the system they are installed on so
you make sure the desktop or the machine
on which you i have downloaded the
desktop wallet is safe has a backup
you're maintaining the hardware you're
not letting the machine go anywhere and
it is on a secure location now these
wallets are definitely cost efficient
and one of the examples is electrum and
is one of the most popular desktop
wallet online wallets are the other kind
of hot wallets that run on the cloud
that are available on the internet now
here users have the benefit of accessing
these wallets across any device it could
be tablet desktop or you can use it from
your mobile browser the private keys are
stored online and are managed by a third
party you have to be dependent on a
third party service now for example
green address is a bitcoin wallet which
is available on the web has an android
app is available on a desktop and also
is available on ios apple mobile wallets
mobile wallets are like similar to
online wallets except that they are
built only for mobile phone usage and
accessibility these wallets are also
user-friendly and they have a
user-friendly interface for which helps
you in doing transactions easily the
example is mycelium which is the best
available mobile wallet hardware wallet
hardware wallet is a type of cold
storage device typically like a usb
which stores the user's private key in a
protected hardware device these wallets
are similar to portable devices that can
be connected to the computer can be
plugged in as i said earlier it is less
prone to malware attacks malicious
attacks and it is hack proof examples
are nanoledger trezor and kiki are the
top hardware wallets available in the
market to make a transaction from your
hardware wallet you have to ensure the
hardware wallet is plugged into your
computer system before you can do a
transaction from your hardware wallet
paper wallet a paper wallet is an
offline process for storing
cryptocurrencies this wallet is a
printed paper consisting of both your
private key and a public key which are
accessed using a qr code now since these
wallets are safe they are widely used
for storing large amount of
cryptocurrencies now for example our
bitcoin paper wallet and myetherwallet
are one of the widely used paper wallets
but the question arises how do i add
cryptocurrency in my paper wallet in
order to make a transaction with your
paper wallet paper wallet works with
your software wallets the online wallets
to transfer funds from your software
wallet to the public address shown on
your paper wallet so basically first you
park your funds in a software wallet
then you transfer the funds from your
software wallet to the public address
printed on your paper wallet now let's
do the comparison blocked in info
blockchain info is a cryptocurrency
wallet which supports bitcoin and
ethereum it is easy to use and has a low
transaction fee it has its apis exposed
you can easily use them to order to make
your own custom wallets also ledger nano
ledger nano is a hardware wallet which
offers a high security to your account
it is available for bitcoin ethereum and
litecoin users it is also possible to
maintain multiple accounts and access
them anytime bitcoin paper wallet paper
wallet helps you to print your own
tamper resistant bitcoin wallet it
minimizes the threat of hacking jacks
jax is a software wallet which enables a
user to exchange currencies within the
wallet it is available for bitcoin
ethereum litecoin and many other
cryptocurrencies with jax a user can
view his updated balance as soon as the
processing is complete now let's take a
look at certain demos for the different
kind of wallets we have talked about so
let's first take an example of paper
wallet so bit address dot org provides
you a paper wallet it uses the
client-side javascript in order to
generate a random hash for your wallet
so you keep moving your mouse and it
will generate a hash public and private
key it is recommended that when you are
doing this process you should be
disconnected from the internet and once
these keys are generated you can print
it and keep it secure and clear the
cache of your browser so as you can see
on the screen this is my public key for
receiving my bitcoins and this is the
private key for me to spend it i can
print it and keep it handy with me but
of course the safety of these physical
documents cannot be entirely guaranteed
if a hacker discovers the location of
your paper wallet and physically steals
it then they can access your bitcoin
holdings so basically it is of high
importance that you keep the paper
wallet in a very very secure location
some users hide or disguise the paper
wallet it should be protected from
physical damage if the keys fade or can
no longer be scanned then the user will
never again be able to access the
bitcoin which are parked in that address
also take care if you are using an
incorrect type of printer that also may
damage the paper wallet
now let's take a look for our second
example of online wallet here we are
taking an example of bitpay so you can
download bitpay online and create your
account over here
you can create a personal wallet you can
create a shared wallet or a joint share
wallet once you create a wallet like if
you see the example over here this is my
personal wallet and i have 3.645
test bitcoins over here
now in order to receive test bitcoins in
my account you can receive these test
bitcoins from testnet dot coin faucet
dot eu's hyphen in
now in order to receive it you just need
to
copy
your bitcoin address
in the testnet address
so the test net has given me 0.87
bitcoin so now my balance has increased
from 3.5 to 3.64 and i can see this
transaction
see three minutes ago i just received
0.872287 bitcoin the transaction is
still in process but in a while as this
transaction is getting mined on the test
net i will receive it now as i have
received it i can even make a
transaction and send it to someone
so from my personal account i can send
bitcoin to
someone whose bitcoin address i have and
i have to just paste it over here
transfer to bitcoin wallet either i can
select one of my own wallets or i can
search for any other bitcoin address
which someone has shared with me and i
can send it to that particular address
now let's take an example of our
hardware wallet how does hardware wallet
works with the online wallets so here we
have metamask which has a feature of
connecting with hardware wallet so once
you have metamask installed you will see
this option of connect hardware wallet
now metamask has provided support for
trezor so now once you connect your
hardware wallet the usb with your
computer you can select an account you
want to view on that particular hardware
wallet and you can only choose one at a
time and then you can start using that
particular wallet for your decentralized
apps so basically once you have your
hardware connected it is integrated with
your metamask and then you can start
running your decentralized apps so that
they can start using the tokens or the
currency in the particular hardware
wallet so use your hardware account like
you would with any ethereum account
login to dapps and send ethereums buy
and store erc20 tokens and non-fungible
tokens like cryptokitties so if you
click connect to trezor over here
metamask will start looking out for the
connected trezor device so i hope you
all had a great learning session and
i'll meet you in my next session thank
you very much
hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learn youtube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos turn it up and get certified
click here
