hi everyone welcome back to another
video in this video we will discuss some
iot projects for beginners so let's get
started a huge shout out to Altium and
jlcpcb for sponsoring this video number
15 if you're always occupied with work
or remain out of the house most of the
time then there are chances you can
forget to feed your fish but no more
with this smart fish feeder with this
you can feed your fish from anywhere
just with the tap of your smartph
phone it has two options first is to
feed instantaneously and second to
schedule it for later
in the hardware setup a Servo motor is
connected to a screw that drops a finite
amount of fish food into the tank when
any of the feeding options is selected
so now the fish will be happy by getting
the food on time number 14 our next
project is an automatic fan speed
controller whenever the temperature
crosses the threshold value the fan
starts operating this speed increases
with the increase in
temperature the threshold temperature
can be easily adjusted on the
application the ambient temperature and
the fan speed can be viewed on the LCD
as well as on the
dashboard the dashboard is easy to set
up you just need to create widgets and
assign a name and a virtual pin number
to them number
13 sometimes it becomes hectic to
manually open and close your garage door
but by making it smart you can make the
process simple for this you will require
an ESP 8266 module it is is placed at
the ceiling of the garage and the door
movements can be controlled from your
smartphone the magnetic sensors at each
end of the door ensure its complete
opening and
closing some additional sensors are also
soldered to the PCB they can be used to
detect temperature humidity and
unnecessary Motion in the garage thus
giving additional security to your
house number 12 are you also concerned
about the water quality you are drinking
then make sure to tried this project it
measures the total dissolved salts in
the water temperature and displays these
readings on an old LED display and if
you're not at home you can still check
the readings anytime on the dashboard
the readings are shown in the form of
grafts for an easy representation and if
the dissolved salts increase Beyond a
permissible limit you can take the
necessary actions on time and always
keep your loved one safe number 11 a
smart home is one of the important
applications of iot and before making
Your Home Smart check the simple project
where you can control the status of
electrical loads using a
smartphone for this you will need to
create a thing on the iot cloud and put
the devices as the
variables after setting up the device a
device ID and secret key will be
generated create a web layout on the
dashboard follow the circuit diagram
upload the code and you're good to go
now you can control the electric loads
easily using a smartphone
number 10 in your home or office if you
are bored of manually operating a switch
then we have a simple solution that will
make things easy for
you using the smart socket you just need
your smartphone to control a particular
AC
load inside the socket lies a circuit
that contains an
esp8266 a relay some transistors and
resistors you just need to insert this
smart socket over the Electric Board and
keep the switch open connect the load on
it and now control its status using your
smartphone pretty easy to control
anything right Altium is a PCB design
software that is both powerful and easy
to use with its intuitive interface and
comprehensive set of features Altium
designer makes it easy to create
highquality PCB designs and with all new
Altium 365 now you can share your PCB
designs to anyone from anywhere with a
single click and to convert these
designs to real life PCB boards look no
further than jlc PCB they provide all
types of PCB services and assembly at
very competitive prices their
highquality pcbs accompanied by quick
delivery and great customer service make
them the perfect partner for your
electronics projects check out the link
in the description below to find out
more about Altium designer and jlc PCB
number nine various devices that we use
today operate using batteries their
improper use or storage may lead to
explosions so it becomes important to
monitor the status of batteries to keep
the device
working with this battery monitoring
system the voltage level and charging
discharging status of a battery can
always be kept in
check the circuit may look pretty simple
but it will get the job done for sure
this project can be modified on large
scale the monitor the battery status of
cars or remotely located battery banks
on your
smartphone number eight our next project
is a multi-purpose iot track
one of its features is that it can act
as an SOS device by just pressing a
button the current location of the
tracker can be sent to a smartphone and
it can make even a call to a particular
number the location can also be obtained
by sending an SMS to that device using
your
phone it contains a rechargeable battery
that can be charged either using a micro
USB or a type-c cable with all these
features this tiny compact project may
help many people when they are in danger
number seven using a phone to keep a
track of the weather updates may be fine
but for precise weather conditions of
the ambient you can rely on this mini
weather station setup it requires a
temperature and humidity sensor the
readings are displayed on the OLED
display and using the blink application
it can be viewed on the smartphone
also the widget showing the readings can
be easily created on the app to view the
data easily you can even add a graph on
the dashboard
number six there is a huge probability
that you might have seen this watch or
you still have one to bring back good
old memories this project will teach you
how you can recreate this clock on
different
displays the esp32 fetches the current
date day and time for the internet and
shows it on a
display the display contains an image of
the clock in the
background to show the details you will
have to make the same sized fonts and
with a simple code you are to view the
date and time on the
display among all these displays which
one will you prefer to use number five
in tightly packed rooms with no proper
ventilation the carbon dioxide
concentration May build up very
quickly high CO2 concentration may have
serious issues on our health that's why
it becomes important to regularly check
the air quality and with this project
you can also measure the temperature and
humidity along with the CO2 levels
all these readings can be viewed on an
OLED display or on the
dashboard the dashboard allows you to
view the instantaneous values as well as
the time-based trend number four with
this project you can monitor the Bitcoin
price
anytime having a price ticker at your
desk has many
benefits in the display you can see the
current bitcoin price the last updated
time the change in price and a graph to
easily view the change over a period
for this you just need to copy the API
place it in a code and upload it to the
board and your Bitcoin ticker is ready
to display the
data number three in case of a fever we
rely on a thermometer to measure our
body
temperature with this project you will
learn to build a smart thermometer that
shows real-time data on a web
page the web page allows you to control
the devices on of status though this
project might take some time due to
complicated soldering you will learn a
lot by following this project the ESP
module in the thermometer remains in the
deep sleep mode most of the time which
saves power and improves the battery
life number two our next project is a
simple setup to control the servo
movement over the
Internet this can come in handy in
various Advanced
applications for this you need to
install a custom image to the Raspberry
Pi and create a game on the
dashboard the camera allows the remote
user to view the current position of the
servo motor and with the keyboard
control the servo movement as well as
the Turning speed can be
changed as the user disconnects the
servo returns to the home
position number one if you are fond of
reading and collecting books then
sometimes it becomes difficult to keep a
track of every book you have and in case
you want to buy a new one there may be a
point when you don't know whether you
already have this one or not in that
case you can use this project to to
verify that you just need to enter the
ISBN number of a particular book and it
will check whether you have this book or
not and with that you can pretty easily
sort a large collection of books or any
other thing that you're interested in
collecting so these are some of the iot
projects that you can try if you're a
beginner drop a like And subscribe to
our channel to keep supporting us we'll
see you again goodbye
