[Music]
hello everyone and welcome to this video
on python frameworks by intellipaat
all of us are somewhat aware of python's
popularity among developers
various stats show that python has
beaten java and made its own place on
rankings but when it comes to working
with python one must be completely aware
of which framework to use in order to
create better applications that is
exactly what i will be talking about in
this video before we begin the session
make sure to subscribe to our channel
and press the bell icon so that you'll
never miss any update from us hello
everyone and welcome to this video bind
telepath but before we begin do not
forget to subscribe and hit the bell
icon for more updates all of us are
somewhat aware of python's popularity
among developers various starts show
that python has beaten java and made its
own plays on rankings but when it comes
to working with python one must be aware
of which framework to use in order to
create better applications that is
exactly what i'll be talking about in
this video let's take a quick look at
the agenda firstly we'll see what is
python then we move on to the benefits
of using python then the disadvantages
what does framework mean and then we'll
see why user framework after which we'll
see types of frameworks and then we'll
see the important python frameworks now
let's move on to our first agenda that
is what is python python is a widely
used and easy to understand
object-oriented programming language
created by guido van rossum in the year
1991. this high-level programming
language appeals to programmers because
of its clear syntax adaptability gui
support and portability features netflix
facebook reddit google and nasa are
among the top technology companies that
use python for their application
projects now let's move on to our next
agenda that is benefits of using python
the python scripting language provides a
number of advantages to its users
nonetheless here are some of the
python's main benefits python is not
only simple to read and write but its
english-like scripting syntax makes it a
popular language to learn and maintain
python apps are also built at a rapid
pace due to its simple coding structure
python is also a versatile coding
language that can be used to create a
variety of online apps nonetheless many
programmers believe it is the ideal
solution for security focused apps
another major advantage of python that
developers can reap the benefit of is
its portability its code runs smoothly
on a variety of operating systems
including mac os ios unix windows and
linux other programming languages such
as java ruby c javascript and c plus
plus can easily be integrated with it
its assimilation with c called c python
is also accessible on github with over
39.7 k stars and 19.8 k forks python is
a free coding language which means that
it may assist a wide range of
organizations so whether you are a
startup a large corporation or a little
business you can benefit from this
language's high efficiency python is
also an established programming language
with a knowledgeable and helpful
community as a result if you have a code
or project difficulty you may readily
locate various answers on or resources
on the internet databases browsers
threads documentation cgi and robotic
app testing are all supported by its
broad library now let's move on to the
disadvantages python has several
advantages but it also has a few
disadvantages let's take a look at them
although python is quick to script
applications due to its simple coding
structure however when compared to other
languages such as c plus javascript and
java there are certain speed
difficulties especially when developers
compile code for large projects because
it uses more memory it is a good choice
for programmers with restricted capacity
unfortunately python has limited support
for mobile apps it may be an excellent
choice for developing online
applications but it lacks the
functionality required to develop mobile
applications as a result it is not
suitable for mobile computing python's
layer for dealing with databases can be
improved as well and now that brings us
to our next agenda that is what does
framework mean a framework is a
collection of software modules tools and
artifacts that provide theoretical and
technical essential assistance in the
development of application software
these frameworks could be utilized in
the construction of many applications in
the programming world yes frameworks
eight coders and avoiding errors and
repeating script the well-known
frameworks for python based applications
include django falcon web to pi bottle
and cherry pie let's move on to our next
agenda that is why use a framework
application or software development is a
lengthy process that includes numerous
processes such as testing developing
code designing apps and more programming
frameworks are good for making these
processes easier for software engineers
as a result frameworks not only keep
your development operations organized
but they also give the necessary
structural support for your coding now
let's look at the main reasons to
program with a framework less
development time the ability of a
framework to reduce development time is
the primary register for its use by
offering support for error session and
data handling coders will save time and
effort developers don't have to worry
about authentic logic or data
sanitization while using a framework
because these functions are handled for
them next we have improves the
efficiency of the development process
the framework also organizes the app's
features properly the framework handles
interface files and web directories
autonomously using business logic so
developers don't have to bother about
arranging different files next we have
safeguards the code frameworks also
provide developers with excellent code
security programmers don't have to worry
about a cyber attack on the app script
if they use a good framework frameworks
in particular provide excellent security
while designing web applications next we
have community assistance the majority
of frameworks like computer languages
are open source and have large
communities these forums provide answers
and resources to aid fellow programmers
who are new to the field next up we have
crude the four core functions of crude
are also included in framework you may
easily create read update and delete
data here in addition framework
libraries make it simple to manage
sessions approach databases manage
cookies and html pages all the templates
and so on next up we have productivity
is increased frameworks encourage rapid
development app deployment and code
reuse as a result it accelerates the
development of your software the
ultimate benefit of fast app development
that coders get while using frameworks
is increased productivity and lastly we
have here suitable for collaboration
another advantage of adopting a
framework is its ability to facilitate
teamwork frameworks will provide several
benefits especially if you're working
with large teams of engineers remotely
similarly your database professionals
may handle data related duties and
experienced developers can create long
lasting plugins libraries and other
softwares now let's move on to our next
agenda that is types of frameworks
python frameworks are usually classified
into three groups we'll go over them in
detail firstly we have full stack
framework a full stack framework is a
structure or system that is utilized to
meet all development requirements this
is essentially a one-stop shop for
programmers who want to create and
maintain client and server site
interfaces because it addresses all
development related difficulties this
framework is often known as enterprise
framework django web to pi and pyramid
are all solid full stack python
frameworks that businesses and
developers should consider for their
projects next up we have micro framework
micro framework is a lightweight app
development framework with a set of
functionalities to create an application
coders typically mix a micro framework
with a full stack framework
unfortunately these frameworks lack form
validation database abstraction input
cleanliness authentication and a web
template engine the primary python micro
framework such as bottle flask and
falcon are only used by developers when
they require critical development
components lastly we have asynchronous
frameworks although asynchronous
programming is an old method of creating
applications its use in python has
increased in recent years in comparison
to the underlying app threads it is
essentially parallel computation that
works independently it's typically
utilized when programmers need to merge
many networks that already exist aio
http and sanik are reliable asynchronous
frameworks that python programmers can
employ in their projects with that we
will move on to our last agenda that is
important python frameworks let's take a
look at the first python framework it is
flask flask is a python micro framework
that was released in the year 2010. it
has robust api support in the ide as
well as advanced capabilities like
real-time visual debugging it also has
back-end database administration
features it is considerably easier to
learn because it has a simple toolbox
next we have django django is a full
stack programming framework that is one
of the most popular on the market it
contains a lot of distinguishing
features such as a large number of
built-in libraries and the usage of the
orm technique for database management it
is also one of the most well optimized
and speedy frameworks in the market that
focuses on security next we have web to
pi web to pi is a python framework for
full stack development that has a lot of
features a code editor debugger and
deployment engine are included this
python framework also includes a
web-based development engine that makes
it easy to add speed and flexibility to
any project next we will talk about
falcon falcon uses wsgi to make it
simple to construct apis and code on the
back end as a result it is one of the
quickest ways to code within an app
valden's design is based on http and
rest making it a more straightforward
solution for experienced programmers in
this field next we'll talk about dash
dash is a popular python framework for
developing online apps because it works
with flask to process requests over http
dash is perfect for data management
developers it can quickly deliver
cross-platform apps and supports flask
plugins next we have cubic web cubic web
is a full stock python framework that is
open source and freely available instead
of using traditional methods cubic web
employs a cubicle method which combines
several components in one place and
turns the program into a powerhouse
complete with configuration a back-end
database and a web server next we'll
talk about aio http it is an
asynchronous http client server for the
python framework it uses the asynchro
library and supports python versions
higher than 3.5 it contains a variety of
characteristics that aid in the faster
and more efficient processing of
requests and results next we have steady
pi cheripai is a popular open source
framework that has been around since
2002 this was created with the intention
of being a simple way to implement the
python's framework vast capabilities
because it is a mature framework it can
handle previous python versions allowing
developers to use old libraries next
we'll talk about jotto joto is an mvc
based framework that focuses on a
functional application foundation it
enables the coder to start from scratch
concentrating on functionality and
deploying alongside the front end this
promotes a clean style which reduces
code complexity over time it also aids
in the development of a steady tempo
prior to deployment lastly we'll talk
about bottle bottle is one of the
lightest python frameworks accessible as
each project source code is
substantially less this micro framework
is useful not just for creating apis but
also for developing smaller web apps and
that's it for this video thank you for
watching please don't forget to
subscribe to our channel and hit the
bell icon for more updates if you want
to make a career in data science then
intellipaat has iit madras advanced data
science and ai certification program
this course is of very high quality and
cost effective as it is taught by iit
professors and industry experts
