yo what's going on guys you're watching
JavaScript for beginners lesson 45 and
in this video we're going to talk about
JavaScript libraries ah or I think gang
so essentially a JavaScript library is
just a chunk of JavaScript code that we
can utilize to help out with our own
code imagine this scenario you want to
create some kind of drag-and-drop
feature on your website well guess what
guys somebody's already done that
they've already written JavaScript for
that and if packed it into this thing
called a JavaScript library so that we
can link to that file and we can use
their functionality in our own script so
what would normally take about 100 lines
of code would now take about 2 or 3
we'll lazy it as JavaScript developers
that's right we don't want to write
something that's already been written so
why not utilize all the people's work
that's what JavaScript libraries are all
about now there's libraries for pretty
much anything you can think of in
JavaScript general-purpose libraries
animation farm enhancement videos plus
tons more there's literally thousands of
libraries on the Internet and more added
each day now by far the most popular
library and the one I'm going to talk
about in this tutorial is jQuery alright
guys so there's a reason jQuery is so
popular and put it simply it's freaking
awesome it can do a lot of things in
JavaScript so what I've done is come
over to jQuery comm and I'm going to use
this in my JavaScript file what I want
to do is click this download jQuery
button right here and there's two ways I
can use it I can either download the
jQuery script onto my computer put it in
the directory of my website and link to
that or I can just link to a CDN version
of the file and I prefer to do that most
of the time now see the end just stands
for content delivery network and
essentially guys that means that jQuery
are hosting it themselves someplace so
that you don't have to so we can click
this link right here and then I'm going
to use jQuery one we're going to get the
minified version which is just a smaller
squashed version of the jQuery does
exactly the same and when you click on
it guys you're going to get something a
bit like this just looks like a lot of
random characters essentially just some
junk squashed up together that my
friends is jQuery
so what we're going to do is just come
over here and grab this we're going to
copy that URL and then we're going to
link this up in our HTML file so we can
use it in our JavaScript alright then so
as you can see I've got my HTML file
open right here and I'm just going to
link to that jQuery file I grab the link
from so first thing I want to do is say
script and then I'm going to give this a
source attribute because we're linking
to an external javascript file but I
paste that URL right there and close the
tag and now guys that is it we have
linked jQuery into this file so now we
can use it within our old JavaScript
files one thing to notice which is
really really important I've loaded
jQuery above my own test J's file
because test J's file depends on this
and if you've got a file which depends
on jQuery you need to put it under
jQuery all right so once we've done that
I want to talk you through this HTML now
dead simple we're going to give with an
idea of content and within that div I've
got some paragraph tags at the bottom
we've got this one that says grab me and
we're going to use jQuery to grab this
element and do some things with it all
right so let's jump over to the test J's
file and before we do anything with
jQuery I want to show you how awkward it
is to grab this element with a vanilla
JavaScript we'd do something like this
we'd store in a variable and we'll say
my power and we'll set that equal to
document dot get element by ID we want
to grab that Content ID first because
that's where the paragraph is and then
within that we want to say get elements
by tag name and then finally we specify
P tag and say we want which element is
it 0 1 2 3 4 5 we want the fifth element
in that array our ailing guys who that
is a bit long-winded just to grab this
little puny paragraph tag right well
fortunately jQuery can do it a hell of a
lot quicker and this is one area where
jQuery really really excels it can use
the Dom to great effect to grab
whichever element you want dead easily
so the way we do it is this we save our
my power - we'll call it and we'll step
out equal to jQuery which you
the dollar sign whenever we use a jQuery
statement we'd normally start with a
dollar sign and then we're going to use
our brackets and we're going to specify
which element we want to grab and I'm
going to grab this one now the cool
thing we deserve jQuery is we can just
pass in a CSS selector so the CSS file
selector for this would just be content
key pseudo class blast child and that my
friends is it is going to grab this
element right here how easy is that now
if you don't know much about CSS or you
want to brush up on that I've got a
playlist on CSS on YouTube and I talked
about pseudo classes and different
selectors there so you can learn about
that there if you don't understand this
but guys once you do understand it it's
so much easier to grab elements using
jQuery alright so now we've grabbed that
element let's start using some methods
on it now jQuery comes with hundreds of
methods we can use and there's tons of
cool ones now the first one I want to do
is the add class method so let me
inspect this element first of all over
here and I'm going to copy and paste
this code to store it in the console
alright now what I'm going to do is say
my power to add class and this is a
jQuery function or method and I'm going
to give it a class of tests and there my
friends is giving it to class
pretty cool yet likewise we can say my
power to don't remove plus and then
we'll remove that class perfect now it's
gone all right then so what else can we
do we can use a method called fade-out
we'll say my power to dot fade-out and
you just watch this paragraph right here
fade it out pretty cool and my power to
bathe in likewise and watch again if
they did perfect we can also control the
CSS we'll say my power to dots CSS
and then we pass in an object between
the brackets and here we can control the
CSS properties I'll say position
relative and we'll say color red and now
is giving it these properties in the CSS
call them red and oh there we go that's
why we couldn't see it was highlighted
and position relative now we can also
animate things and this is similar to
CSS we'd still pass in CSS attributes or
CSS properties that we want to animate
but it does so smoothly so let's do that
we'll say my power to animate and we'll
say passing the object left 50 pixels
and you can see now is scoot to the left
and it kind of slid over it did just go
there it animated across all right guys
so they are a few of the functions we've
got this is really just touching or
scratching the surface of jQuery there's
tons more we can do in it and certainly
loads more than I can cover it in one
video and so what I'm going to do is a
whole playlist on jQuery in the future
in fact the very near future so stay
tuned for that but yeah if you have any
questions about g-s libraries in general
or what you've seen here feel free to
comment down below I'll answer all of
your questions otherwise guys if you
enjoy these videos don't forget to
subscribe and also share and like the
videos I'll see you in a net one
