you might find this hard to believe but
amazon.com's retail business isn't very
profitable selling consumers cheap
Chinese junk is a highly competitive low
margin business however Amazon Inc
becomes profitable after you factor in
Amazon web services an insane Cash Cow
that recently hit operating margins of
30% renting out servers AKA cloud
computing is one of the best business
models of the 21st century and nearly
every Indie hacker startup and
Enterprise is highly addicted to it what
they don't tell you is that getting you
addicted is essential for the business
model to work today you learn exactly
how Cloud providers lock you in what you
can do about it and some new
developments that may change things in
the future it is February 12th 2024 and
you're watching the code report Amazon
web services was the original innovator
of the cloud when it launched S3 and ec2
back in 2006 AWS still dominates the
market share today with Microsoft's
Azure in second and Google Cloud
platform in third now even if you use a
boutique platform like verell or netfi
you're still actually just using a big
cloud provider because they generally
resell AWS services at a higher price in
exchange for a fancy UI and better
developer experience what's crazy though
is that these companies have the means
to stand up their own servers but
they're just as locked into AWS as we
are and you'll find out why in just a
minute now the first step to getting
someone addicted to something is to
start them when they're young this is
what Facebook does with social media and
it's why smokers almost always start
before they're 18 on the cloud they get
the addiction started with the free tier
any new account that signs up gets a few
hundred bucks for free but if you're a
start up and have the right VC behind
you you can easily get $100,000 in free
AWS credits it's an awesome deal for a
but Amazon is playing the long game if
your startup doesn't fail they're going
to make a 100 times that amount off you
in the future in addition Cloud pricing
models are extremely complex by Design
the more opaque the pricing model the
harder it is to determine the actual
cost implications of switching providers
and for Enterprise they offer long-term
discounts in additional support which
can be worth billions of dollars when
you have customers like the Pentagon
getting you in the door is pretty
obvious but once you're in they also
need ways to make it hard for you to
leave and one way they do that is by
charging outrageous egress fees egress
is when data leaves the network as
opposed to to Ingress when data comes
into the cloud which is generally free
that means if you use a cloud storage
bucket and upload say a few pedabytes
worth of data then decide you want to go
to a different Cloud you're going to
have a massive Bill to move that data
from one Cloud to the other people
generally switch clouds to save money
but when you factor in that data
transfer bill it's usually not worth it
like when 37 signals migrated away from
the cloud they were looking at A3 to
$400,000 S3 bill just to move the data
there is some good news though just a
few days ago Google Cloud removed
transfer fees when migrating away from
Google Cloud that's great news for
developers because it breaks down the
barriers of vendor lockin however some
people saw this as a sign that Google
Cloud will be killed soon in which case
I would lose this highly unfortunate bed
I made last year that's why I think this
is actually a sign of product strength
and will hopefully motivate other clouds
to do the same and by the way there's a
0% chance Google Cloud shuts down
anytime soon as it just hit
profitability in 2023 according to
Gemini this move might be related to the
eu's data act which is looking to crack
down on cloud egress fees take a look at
this breakdown on get deploying
platforms like cloudflare totally free
while bare metal providers like lenoe
and hetner are very reasonable but as we
get up to AWS and Azure we see the free
allowance decrease and the egress fees
increase but then it gets even worse
when we look at platforms like forell
and NFI they're basically pricing their
bandwidth at five times what AWS charges
them pretty clever but why don't they
just buy their own servers to reduce
these costs even further well as you can
see their infrastructure is highly
dependent on AWS and their egress fees
would be astronomical and another thing
is that many database companies like say
mongodb give you the option to choose a
cloud when you create an account well if
you're a customer with a massive data
set it's going to be extremely expensive
to use this service if it's not on the
same cloud and essentially that forces
every Big Data SAS company into the
cloud and that's why Jeff Bezos has a
$500 million yacht with a figure head of
his girlfriend on the bow and you don't
but data transfer fees are just one
small way to get locked in another big
issue is proprietary technology all the
big clouds have their own custom
databases which are closed source and
not easy to migrate to other platforms
even if you use an open source database
like postgress or MySQL you'll likely
use a fully managed service like RDS in
which case you're reliant on the cloud
to scale the infrastructure and handle
things like security updates and the
surrounding ecosystem is tightly
integrated all the products work great
when they're on the same Cloud but most
things aren't standardized to work
properly outside that cloud and
sometimes that can even include open
source tools when you build your
infrastructure around custom apis and
proprietary Tech it becomes harder and
harder to just transfer things elsewhere
but nobody wants to be a slave to the
cloud so what do we do about it well we
have three main options option one is to
not use the cloud at all instead you buy
your own server and get some static IP
addresses and try to manage everything
by yourself it'll be way more expensive
UPF front way more labor intensive to
maintain it won't be as fault tolerant
or secure but could pay off in the long
run this option doesn't make a lot of
sense for Indie hackers but makes a lot
of sense for medium-sized businesses
like base camp which claims it'll save
$7 million over the next 5 years by
moving off of the cloud option two is to
use the cloud responsibly and by that I
mean use open source technologies that
are portable which will then allow you
to use a multicloud strategy where you
pick and choose the best services from
each of the major clouds or a hybrid
strategy where you use your own hardware
for some things and the cloud for others
then finally option three is to embrace
the addiction pick a cloud and take the
easy way out with all their proprietary
Tech the cloud is not supposed to be
cheaper what you're paying for is
convenience bare metal minus pain equals
AWS AWS minus pain equals verell the
real question is how much pain are you
willing to tolerate this has been the
code report thanks for watching and I
will see you in the next one
