this is not yet another Cloud comparison
video I'm not just going to be giving
you a basic overview of each provider
instead we are going to be comparing
Amazon web services AWS Microsoft Azure
Google Cloud platform gcp on a number of
key factors and really dive in into the
details so grab your coffee or your
favorite beverage sit back and let's get
started my name is Elias I'm a Senior
Solutions architect now let's do this
[Music]
first up on the list we have Amazon web
services also known as AWS this is the
oldest and the most established cloud
provider having been launched back in
2006. AWS offers a wide range of
services including compute and storage
and databases as well as machine
learning and Internet of Things
capabilities it's also the most popular
cloud provider today with the largest
market share next we have Microsoft
Azure Azure was launched in in 2010 and
offers several
us including compute some storage and
databases it also has a strong focus on
hybrid Cloud capabilities allowing
customers to easily connect on-premise
infrastructure with Azure Services Azure
also has a strong integration with other
Microsoft products such as Office 365
and Dynamics 365. lastly we have Google
cloud platform or TCP now gcp was
launched in 2011 just one year after
Azure and offers similar services to AWS
and Azure including again compute
storage and databases and gcp has a
strong focus on big data and machine
learning with services like bigquery and
sensorflow it also offers strong
integration with other Google products
such as Google analytics and Google Maps
for example so let's start our
comparison with pricing AWS is known for
having a vast array of products and
services to choose from but their
pricing structure can be a little
complex and difficult to navigate Azure
on the other hand has a more
straightforward pricing model and often
offers discounts for long-term
commitments which can make it a good
choice for businesses with predictable
workloads and gcp has a reputation for
being the most cost effective of the
three especially for those who are
willing to do some optimizations to get
the best prices next let's take a look
at the range of services offered AWS has
the most comprehensive offering of the
three with a huge number of products and
services that can be tailored to fit
almost any need Azure comes in second in
this regard with a solid selection of
services that are particularly well
suited for Enterprise customers and gcp
is a bit more focused with a smaller
range of services that are geared more
towards developers and startups keep
that in mind we'll get back to it later
in the video now I have heard folks
complain about how the AWS web console
is overwhelming it so that got me
thinking about comparing the web
consoles next and it seems all three
major Cloud providers offer
user-friendly interfaces and
uncomprehensive documentation to help
users get started however
in terms of web console ergonomics there
are some differences between the three
providers First AWS offers a
comprehensive web console with a wide
range of services but I agree it can be
overwhelming for beginners the console
is highly customizable and allows users
to create custom dashboards but it can
also take some time to navigate and find
the specific Services you need on the
other hand azure's web console is
considered to be more intuitive and easy
to use compared to AWS with a more
streamlined interface and clear
navigation the console also offers a
wide range of services but it's more
focused on Microsoft specific products
and services now gcp's web console is
considered to be the most user friendly
of the three with a clean simple
interface that makes it easy for
beginners to find and use the services
they need the console offers also a wide
range of services but it's more focused
on big data and machine learning so it
seems that overall all three Cloud
providers offer user-friendly web
consoles but Azure and gcp are
considered to be more intuitive and more
beginner friendly or user friendly than
AWS let's talk about internet of things
next as a subjects I'm very interested
in personally as a tinkerer so I went on
the hunt trying to find which out of the
major three Cloud providers is well
positioned in the iot domain and we'll
start with AWS well it offers a
comprehensive set of iot services
including AWS iot core Green Grass and
iot analytics these Services provide a
wide range of capabilities for iot
deployment such as device management
data collection and processing machine
learning however the complexity of these
Services can be overwhelming for a
beginner Azure iot on the other hand is
considered to be more beginner friendly
compared to AWS with a more streamlined
interface and a focus on ease of use
Azure iot Central is a fully managed SAS
solution that allows users to connect to
Monitor and to manage iot devices
without requiring any Cloud expertise
gcp also offers a wide range of iot
services including iot core Cloud iot
Edge and Cloud iot devices Decay but it
seems gcp's iot services are focused on
data analytics on machine learning and
on edge Computing Google's iot Services
is considered to be easy to use and
beginners friendly but not as
comprehensive not as complete as AWS or
Azure by the way did you start to notice
a pattern here it seems that no matter
what field we look at Azure is
considered to be most beginner friendly
AWS the most comprehensive set of
services while gcp is considered to be
easy to use but with a focus on data
analytics and machine learning but I was
not convinced not yet so I set out to
research yet another aspect their sdks
the software development kits and how
easy it is for their customers to build
and integrate applications with their
respective cloud services but that was
almost a waste of time because they
pretty much turn out to score the same
all the three provide sdks that support
various programming languages such as
Java python.net node.js go Ruby and many
many more all the three provide a
convenience way to interact with their
services and all the three provide a CLI
a command line interface that allows
developers to access their respective
services using the command line commands
so I quickly moved on to the next item
on my list which is databases I wanted
to learn which one was offering the best
database Services allowing the customers
to store to manage access their data in
the Cloud so here it goes AWS seems to
have thought about every single data
storage use case you can think of I've
created a managed service for it this is
very obvious when you look at their
purpose-built database web page whether
it's relational key value in -memory
database white column
always find a fully managed database
service at AWS and Azure was actually
not very far behind offering similar
Services as AWS such as Azure SQL
database a fully managed relational
database service Azure Cosmos DB a fully
managed nosql database service and data
Lake storage a fully managed data like
service obviously now Azure also offers
Azure database for my SQL Azure database
for postgrades which are fully managed
relational database Services as for gcp
well it follows in the steps of the
aforementioned providers by offering
services like Cloud SQL a fully managed
relational database service that
supports popular database engines such
as MySQL by the way um I think it's
pronounced me SQL I read somewhere that
the creator of database has two girls
one is me and the other one is Mariah so
I think it's actually me sequel not my
sequel anyways it supports my slash me
sequel what's the great Sequel and SQL
Server there's also Cloud spanner a
globally distributed relational database
service there's Cloud bigtable a fully
managed nosql database service and
there's Cloud datastore a fully managed
documents database service gcp also
offers Cloud firestore a fully managed
Cloud native nosql document database
service
that was a mouthful and for the last
item on my comparison list I wanted to
explore a domain I'm not very familiar
with the no code slash low code area
that's taken the World by a storm
recently since the public release of
chargept and all the AI Tools around it
so when it comes to creating and
deploying applications without writing
code slash writing the least amount of
code possible AWS offers a wide range of
such services including AWS uprunner
which allows customers to build test and
deploy containerized applications
quickly and easily there's AWS cold star
which allows customers to quickly
develop build and deploy applications on
AWS and AWS honeycode which is built to
simplify manual tasks no programming
required as for handling data with no
code AWS offers AWS glue ETL service
which enables customers to extract
transform and load data for analytics
and data warehousing through a series of
clicks and Scrolls Azure seems to follow
suit as well by offering similar no code
Services as AWS such as Azure logic apps
a service that allows customers to
create workflows to automate business
processes and integrate with other Azure
services and there's also power automate
which allows customers to automate
business processes and integrate with
other services this one actually was
suspiciously suspicious sys
suspiciously similar to AWS honeycomb
Azure also offers Azure data breaks
which allows customers to build train
and deploy machine learning models
without writing code and as for gcp I
could only find one cloud service that
was the cloud data flow which allows
customers to build to test and deploy
data processing pipelines without
writing code so maybe someone who's
knowledgeable about gcp can chime in in
the comments with more gcp no code
services that I must have missed now at
this point I was exhausted my goal was
to try to find an area where there was a
clear winner but the same patterns keep
occurring regardless of which domain I
looked at AWS turned out to be more
complete as you're more user friendly
and gcp more easy to start with but I
had to take some time to think about
this and after a while I realized how
each of these providers has its own
unique strengths and on weaknesses AWS
is known for its reliability and
robustness with a long track record of
uptime and a huge network of data
sensors around the world Azure is
particularly strong in the areas of
artificial intelligence and machine
learning and offers a number of tools
and services to support these
applications and gcp is a great choice
for those who want a more open and
flexible platform with a wide range of
Open Source tools and Technologies
available so which one is the best well
it really depends I know you hate this
answer but it really depends on what you
need honestly if you're a large
Enterprise with Deep Pockets and a need
for a wide range of services AWS might
be the way to go if you're a developer
or a startup on a tight budget just he
could be a great fit and if you're
somewhere in the middle Azure then might
be the perfect compromise but you know
don't take my word for it it's important
to do your own research it's important
to figure out the cloud provider that is
the right fit for your specific needs
and that's where we come in we will be
doing a series of videos they're going
to dig in
and that's where we come in we will be
doing a series of videos digging into
each of these providers in more depth so
stay tuned thank you very much for
watching and don't forget to hit that
subscribe button to stay up to date on
all things cloud computing see you in
the next video peace out
