if you're trying to break into cyber
security and you find that popular
certifications like cissp require you to
have five years of experience then this
video is for you in this video I'll take
you through the certification path that
I would personally follow today if I was
trying to break into cyber security
these are certifications that don't have
any experience requirements and also
have the best bank for your buck in
terms of career progression career
opportunities but also in terms of
growing and developing new skills in
order for you to become a cyber security
professional you can call me your next
guy I've been working in cyber security
for about two decades when I started my
career I didn't have any career mentors
so I decided to create these videos in
order to help you to avoid making the
same mistakes that I made and to be the
mentor that I've never had the first
certification that I recommend is
usually a certification that will take
you through the definition and basic
concepts in cyber security and for that
I have two recommendations for you the
first one is certified in cyber security
from ist2 isc2 are the providers for for
the CIS SP certification they are known
for their high quality and they are
highly recognized by employers I really
recommend this certification because it
doesn't have any prerequisite background
of knowledge it doesn't assume that you
know anything and also the good thing is
both the training and the certifications
are absolutely free for now so I
recommend that you don't waste any time
and go straight into doing this
certification alternatively you can do
CompTIA Security Plus company Security
Plus is a really popular certification
as I said it takes you through the
definitions and the basic concepts in
cyber security it's a nice little
introductory certificate that I
recommend for anybody starting out in
cyber security now before you go on and
ask me do I need the network plus before
doing Security Plus or do I need CCNA
the answer is no I discussed this in
detail in this video so if you want to
argue with me about that so I recommend
that you do so in that video now the
second thing that I recommend you do
after you do your basic definition
certifications it's penetration testing
certifications even if you don't plan on
becoming a penetration tester I think
doing mutation testing certifications
are super underrated in the industry
because they make you really understand
the cyber attacks really really well
they give you a much better perspective
on later on when you implement controls
and detections and response like I see a
huge difference between cyber security
professionals who have done a little bit
of pen testing and those who have never
done pen testing you can see that in
their recommendation you can also see it
in their confidence when they talk about
how to defend against cyber attacks now
for me personally when I was trying to
break into cyber security I really
wanted to be a penetration tester I
wanted to be a full-time hacker the only
problem is back then the only
certification and training that was
available to me was the oscp from
offensive security the issue with that
certificate is it's not beginner
friendly and it's very very frustrating
especially if you're someone who doesn't
have any experience in cyber security or
penetration testing now fast forward to
today and the good news is we have
e-learn security which is the first
certificate that I recommend in
penetration testing Elon security Junior
certified penetration tester or the ejpt
is an absolutely amazing introduction to
penetration testing and the reason why
I'm a big fan of it is because it's
fully lab based you get to practice what
it actually means to do a cross-site
scripting attack or an SQL injection
attack or a Brute Force attack it will
give you those Hands-On skills you get
to practice and you get to understand
this Concepts at a deeper level and at
the same time it doesn't have that
massive massive commitment that you need
to make if you want it to be a full-time
penetration tester and again before some
of you ask me what about the certified
ethical hacker from EC Council I
absolutely don't recommend doing the
certified ethical hacker because it's
just about memorizing a bunch of
Concepts and doing a multiple choice
exam now the third type of certification
that I recommend once you've done your
basic foundational certificates and
penetration certificate the third one
would be certifications focused on
stopping cyber attacks so this is the
realm of a security Operation Center or
a cyber security analyst the certificate
that I recommend you do is the CompTIA
SSR plus and just be mindful that if
you've done CompTIA Security Plus before
and now you're doing DSLR plus this is a
plus is a little bit harder than
Security Plus it's a challenging
certifications it needs more time
commitment it needs more studying but
it's not an impossible certificate
especially for someone who've done let's
say Security Plus and then ejpt once you
do this as a plus this concept overall
make sense everything is tied in
together the certificate will take you
through the basic techniques that we use
to defend against cyber attacks the
contents are absolutely amazing for the
certificates and it can prepare you to
work in a security Operation Center or
to work as a cyber analyst now another
option for you if you don't want to do
this as a plus is from e-learn security
that's the Elon security certified
incident responder and again I'm a big
fan of this because it has a Hands-On
lab component and now a bonus tip before
we finish this video that I want to talk
about is sense certifications for those
of you who don't know the Sans Institute
is a massive provider of cyber security
training one of the oldest providers of
cyber security training highly respected
training and certification provider if
you do a sense training then you can do
the GX certification the only problem
with the Sans Institute is the price
usually the cost of their training
course which is a five-day training
course sometimes it's fall but the cost
is something like eight thousand dollars
which I understand it's a lot of money
the good news is there are ways to get
the same training and certification for
a lot less money I talked about this in
detail in this video and I'll put a link
to this video in the description box
below but for those of you who went and
watched that video I talk about the work
study program so if I was just starting
today in cyber security I will apply to
the work study program literally any
chance possible in fact I personally
have done that for three years in a row
up until I was accepted into one and the
beginner certification that I recommend
from Sans is none other than the Sans
the ACT certified incident Handler the
gcih is an absolutely phenomenal
certificate specially for those starting
out in cyber security it takes you
through the most common types of attacks
it takes you through the hacker
techniques tools and it also teaches you
how to protect against those attacks it
has a little bit of a lab component and
the training is absolutely fantastic
employers know and respect sense
certifications and if you're wondering
what to do after you've done the
certifications that I recommended the
next step for you would be to specialize
choose a cyber security specialization
and go deep into it I created a playlist
of cyber security specializations I've
literally created a video about each
cyber security specializations I talked
about what the day-to-day job looks like
the pros and cons and I've also talked
about training and certifications that
can help you work into that
specialization so I'll see you there
