hey what up guys welcome back to my
channel and today I have a very special
video for you that I think many of you
will enjoy because we will namely be
building a block chain in under 15
minutes because I want to demonstrate to
you guys that block chain in itself is a
very simple concept it's a very simple
data structure at its core of course
cryptocurrencies are complicated but the
blockchain is not the reason they are
complicated the reason why they're
complicated is the consensus algorithm
it's the mining is the transactions is
everything that is around but blockchain
in itself is very easy to understand but
you need to know what you need to know
before you can actually understand what
blockchain is and how it works you need
to know what hashes are and you need to
know how they work and so a hash is
basically a digital signature of of some
kind of data so for example I can take a
movie and I can hash it and get a
digital signature I can take an email
and I can hash it and get a digital
signature I can take a word and they can
hash it I can take a whatever data you
just take it you hash it and you get the
digital signature for that data so
before we start with the actual
blockchain let me just demonstrate it to
you how this works so we will be
building our blockchain in Java it will
be very simple and you if you know
programming you can do that in another
language and if you don't know
programming I think you still will be
able to understand roughly how this
works so let's let's talk about hashes
as we can see us we have two lists we
have one list that contains ABC and we
have a second list that also contains a
B and C so this this is the data this is
basically the strings we're trying to
hash so let's see what kind of what kind
of digital signature we will get from
list 1 and what kind of so we will just
print the digital signature or the hash
whenever you hear hash guys you can just
think you can replace hash with digital
signature so let's see what kind of
output we get if we print the Dignitas
digital signature of a and
signature of at least one and digital
signature of least two so as you can see
as we get these two numbers and digital
signatures are identical for these two
lists if I now change anything in list
two for example and I run it again you
see that I get a completely different
digital signature so if I just make a
small amendment I just meddle with the
data I try to change anything in this
list I will get a completely different
digital signature and that is the
foundation of a blockchain because a
blockchain is a list of blocks basically
a chain of blocks and each block holds
the digital signature of the previous
block and the digital signature of the
next block is based upon the digital
signature of the current block so they
are always together the next signature
will be based on the current signature
and the current signature is based on
the previous signature so if you change
anything back back in the past you will
break all of the signatures they will
look completely different and I'm trying
to adjust the lighting I should get some
kind of artificial light so I don't need
to to reduce the window as the light
source okay so now that we understand
what digital signatures are hashes and
digital signatures is basically the same
world and how you use them let's
actually get into our blockchain coding
and let's see if I can make it under 15
in under 15 minutes so the first thing
we need to do is talk about our block
our block in this case will be very
simple it will only contain three things
it will contain the list of transactions
that happened in that block it will
contain the previous hash the hash or
the digital signature of the previous
block and it will also contain the hash
of the current of of itself and this
hash will be based on the transactions
and the previous hash so if anyone would
change anything in the previous block
the digital signature of the current
block will change
and when that changes the digital
signature of the next block will change
you will see how this works very soon
guys so let me just remove this this
class that I played around with earlier
let me see let me delete and let's start
from scratch and we will create a new
class and it will be the block so I'm
doing it in Java you can do it in
whatever language you want it's
basically a simple and simple stuff so
let's create the fields it will have the
previous hash it will have the let me
see it will have the previous hash and
it will have the transactions list of
transactions so I'm just making a a an
array of strings so each transaction
will be a string in this case of course
in in a real block chain the
transactions would be their own objects
and we will need to create a object for
that and define a class and all of that
but we're just playing around let's just
create let's just create them as strings
so and each block will also have a its
own hash and this hash will be based on
all the transactions let me just define
and the array on which we will base the
hash so we first of all need to
calculate the hash of the transactions
transactions let me add an S here and s
here and an S here and here and also
here
so we we will calculate the current hash
based on the hash of all of the
transactions and the previous hash like
this and so the block hash will be the
digital signature all the hash however
you want to call it of contents and
contents are the hash of the
transactions that are in this block and
the previous hash the hash of the
previous block so if I change anything
in the transactions or if I change
anything in the transactions in the
previous block or anything in these
transactions in the block before the
previous block
this hash will be completely different
and here you also need to change okay
very good guys we have finished our blog
let's create the blockchain an ArrayList
of blocks so it's basically an array of
blocks and ArrayList is just easier to
work with
let's see blockchain and it will be
interesting new ArrayList like this so
we need to create orogenesis block
because each block chain needs a Genesis
block that is hard-coded
the reason is because as you can see as
each block has the hash of the previous
block however the Genesis block is the
first block so it has no previous block
so we need to hard code how it looks
like so Genesis let's call it Genesis
block it will be a new block and let's
see what kind of things it needs a
previous hash which we don't have and it
needs transactions so let's just let's
just make fake transactions here Tran
Genesis transactions transactions and
they are equal to for example let's say
Satoshi cent Ivan 10 Bitcoin so I'm just
writing the transactions as strings of
course in a real blockchain this would
be some other data structure probably
some kind of transaction class but for
simplicity let's just let's just write
them as strings send ten bitcoins to
Ivan so everyone is sending me Bitcoin
in this Genesis block so I add it like
this
so guys now we can actually output the
get block hash let's see I need we need
to create a getter for the block hash so
now we can actually output now come on
yes now we can actually output the
digital signature of the block we just
created block hash let's see what it
looks like so as we can see I get this
number
there is a negative mind
something so this is a digital signature
of this block that we just created now
if I change anything at all in this
block let's say that I want I want to
cheat the system and I suddenly say that
Satoshi sent me a million Bitcoin or
like 100,000 Bitcoin and if I run this
now we will see that the digital
signature is completely different and
this is very important because when we
create our second block let's say block
let's create our second block it will
need the first of all it will need the
previous hash it will need the hash of
the previous block and that is the
Genesis block blockchain hash and it
will need some kind of transactions I
see let's say that block two
transactions let's say that in the
second block
Ivan sent ten Bitcoin to Satoshi I sent
him back his bitcoins and Satoshi sent
ten Bitcoin to Starbucks like this so
these are the transactions in the second
block so yes as you can see if I put the
transactions and we output now the
digital signature of the second block
let's just do like this hash of block
two hash of Genesis block so now we can
actually output the hash of block 2 and
the Genesis block something is ok I
forgotten you
let's see let me shrink myself here so
as we can see hash of the Genesis block
is this number
Hacha block - is this number now yes
here is the interesting part that if I
change anything in block 1 for example
let's say I suddenly say that Satoshi
send me this many bitcoins and they run
it you will see that these numbers would
be completely different as you can see
the hash of Genesis block is completely
different and the hash of the second
lock is completely different and so this
is the basic foundation of the
blockchain that if I change anything
back here the next block will get a
completely different signature and that
is because we're passing the previous
hash and group and we are calculating
the current hash based on the previous
hash and these transactions so if I
change anything in the past the
transactions will be different the hash
of the transactions will be different
and this change will propagate through
the blockchain and so let's just create
a third block like this let's say block
3 transactions and block 3 and now we
have the previous hash will be block 2
block 2 and the transactions will be
block three transactions and let's say
that in this block I will I sent one
Bitcoin to my mom like this or let's
give her this many bitcoins and if I get
the digital signature of that let's see
block 3 like this and we'll run it I get
the following I get the following
signatures so I just want to demonstrate
not to you guys now that if I change
anything in the first block let's say
that I add this a I just change it
change anything in these strings in
these strings as you can see it's
completely different the signatures in
all of these steps and this this hashing
algorithm is
is very hard to crack and the more
blocks are created on top of of the of
one block the transactions in that block
are more and more confirmed because it's
harder and harder to crack all of these
hashes because the previous hash will be
based on the hash before that and the
current hash will be based on the
previous hash and so as you can see a
change in any of these transactions in
any of the data in the one block will
propagate and change all of the digital
signatures in the future and that is how
abduction works because if I change
something everyone else will see that my
digital signatures are completely
different from everyone else's so that
means that I have cheated so if I just
tell everyone that hey Satoshi gave me
this many bitcoins back back then and
here is the blockchain that that
confirms that everyone will take a look
at it and say well I will know this
blockchain doesn't confirm that because
we have our own versions of the
blockchain and the digital signatures
are completely different so guys I hope
you enjoyed I hope you understood the
basic concepts of hashing of of linking
blocks together via their digital
signatures or the hashes and if you are
new viewer and you like blockchain
technology theorum programming software
development you should definitely
subscribe to this channel guys because
you will find it interesting I myself am
a software developer and I'll see you
guys tomorrow I hope you really know how
blockchain works and how the concepts
behind it have a good day guys goodbye
