[Music]
hello everybody I'm glad to see all my
favorite viewers I'm Paul the biggest
crypto blogger on YouTube as always
today we are delving into the C topic of
crypto arbitrage strategy from the title
of this video you already understand
that we will be discussing Litecoin
Arbitrage but remember that Arbitrage is
not just about storing coins in your
wallet it's about maximizing your
profits right here and now let me show
you how it works the price of Litecoin
changes every second so it makes no
sense to name a specific figure Because
by the time you watch this video it will
most likely change this provides a
fantastic opportunity to benefit from my
crypto arbitrage strategy which involves
trading between two exchanges to make a
profit I'll walk you through a
step-by-step process that anyone can
follow and repeat the basic idea is
simple we buy Litecoin on one exchange
at a lower price and sell it on another
at a higher price in this example we
will use Litecoin but you can also apply
the strategy to coins like ethereum we
will use popular exchanges such as
binance coinbase buybid or any other
crypto wallet and the second exchange
will be Rod nexus.com if you compare the
Litecoin rate on binance and revex you
will notice that it is 7 to 10% higher
on revex this means that we can buy
Litecoin or any other coin on binance
and sell it on Revo Deus making a profit
of 7 to 10% on each transaction
depending on the initial investment I'm
sure that binance bybit and coinbase do
not need to be introduced as these are
well-known exchanges but let me tell you
a little bit about Revo Deus this
exchange has been operating since 2014
and is actively represented on Instagram
and telegram which makes it a reliable
and wellestablished platform it is
expected that she will continue work in
the long term and for more information
you can check out their website or
social media channels now let's look at
an example of a $10,000 deal and
calculate the potential profit between
binance and
revelex first log into your wallet go to
the account replenishment page copy the
Litecoin address and initiate the
transfer from binance to revex
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
as soon as Litecoin arrives on revex go
to The Exchange page and exchange it for
7 to 10% more expensive compared to what
you originally paid on binance as a
result you will receive a profit of of 7
to 10% of the initial Litecoin amount of
$10,000 next you will want to withdraw
usdt back to any crypto wallet just go
to the wallet Tab and then withdraw
funds enter the address for withdrawing
funds from your chosen wallet for
example binance I recommend using the
trc20 network because of its speed and
low transaction fees finally click the
withdraw button and watch as the funds
are successfully returned to Finance
completing the Arbitrage round with a
profit of 7 to 10% of your
$10,000 this example shows that the
larger the initial investment the more
profit you can achieve in just one trade
and all this in just five minutes you
can continue to increase the initial
amount and repeat this process several
times increasing your profit each time I
strongly recommend using the strategy
before the opportunity closes don't for
forget to subscribe to the channel like
the video and follow the update so as
not to miss new interesting strategies
see you soon and may have a great day
filled with big profits
