hi welcome to day 39400 days SQL
challenge today we're going to solve one
of the really interesting SQL question
that was asked recently to one of my
followers so let's see the question so
the question says you are given a
customers table with two columns which
is called customers ID and customer name
in the customer ID you have integer
values like 1 2 3 4 5 6 and in customer
name we have customers name at the
moment we have four record in the table
it says right in SQL query to find the
missing customers IDs the missing
customers IDs are the one that are not
in the customers table but are in the
wrench between one and the maximum
customers ID present in the table to
solve this problem first step I'm going
to use a recursive City to create a
number series now I'm going to use a
wear condition and I would say ID must
be less than 100 and ID must be less
than maximum customers ID of customers
table from Force to the last now I will
one more wear condition to say that ID
must not be in the customers ID table
that is how I will be selecting all the
customers ID from the customers table
which are not available in the customer
table you can see we have three and two
