what's up guys this is crack ho to
welcome back to a brand new video in
this video I'm gonna show you guys on
how to learn programming for absolutely
free now before we start this video
there are some things you guys should
know about this first and foremost you
don't need any experience or knowledge
to learn programming whatsoever so you
can be a complete novice and not know
any sort of code or anything about
computers that doesn't matter in this
case you guys can learn for free and
easily the second thing is you don't
need to pay a single cent for this and
it will always be free there are those
services where you sit down on the
computer and you're learning something
and then you notice like a week later
the trial ended and then you have to pay
that's not gonna happen again this is
completely free so you don't have to
worry about that so with that being said
why should you learn to code or to
program it's simple when you guys are
not programming you can become a web
developer and later on a full-stack
developer so you could be sitting at
home on a computer drinking your coffee
learning the code and then a couple
months later you go on the online web
and you go to freelancing sites and like
up were calm and then you start making
money and you help people out and you
get paid for working at home I know
countless of people my age and younger
than weed are sixteen making hundreds
and even thousands of dollars a month so
it's all worth it how do you get started
I'm gonna show you guys that right now
it's a free website that you guys can
see down in the description link below
called free code camp org now I'm gonna
go ahead and show you guys this but real
quick just so you guys know as a
disclaimer I do not own the site and I
am not affiliated with the site I
personally use this website to learn
code myself which is why I'm spreading
the word and spreading the launch to you
guys so with that being said let's begin
okay so we're here at free code camp org
now to start it's simple all you guys
got to do is click the orange start
coding button right here and from there
you guys can go ahead and continue the
Google or with Facebook or with email
doesn't matter I'm gonna go ahead and
just for this example put in the temp
email just to show you guys you can do
the same thing put in an email address
email and then put the code in that you
from the email and then click submit'
code and continue to free code camp and
from there all you guys are going to do
is click on you go to coding curriculum
once you guys are on a coding curriculum
you're gonna get three sections of the
screen the guide section the editor
section on the center and the live
production section on the right side of
the screen so following the left side of
the screen you guys gonna get a tutorial
and then you're gonna get a little
challenge you guys are gonna have to
pass the challenge so in this case I'm
gonna go ahead and have to do an h1
element and type in hello world that's
what it's asking you to do run the test
you can see we did it and then we go to
the next challenge the next challenge
again you just got to follow the
instructions this time we have to do an
h2 element and do a cat photo app text
so do that and you guys get the idea
basically what you guys want to do is
make sure you follow the instructions
carefully I highly recommend you guys
get a notebook and take notes along the
way it does get very easy it is very
easy to start with but it will get more
and more challenging and if you guys are
getting stuck while doing this you don't
have to worry you can click on get a
hint and it'll give you guys a hint on
what to do or if you're absolutely stuck
and you want to see how you can do it
how you can pass it then you can watch a
video and it will tell you exactly what
you did wrong and show you the right way
and that's pretty much it so in
conclusion we learned that there's a
program you guys can use and it does
look simple at first but it progresses
and gets more difficult so you guys are
responsible for sitting through the
lessons and trying to check off each of
the lessons you guys learned beginning
with HTML and then CSS visual design and
eventually JavaScript there's hundreds
and hundreds of countless of hours of
free learning you guys can get with this
you're gonna be sitting there and
thinking about the challenge you're
gonna be like wow this is very difficult
how do I move on to the next challenge
so you really have to test yourself and
take notes as I mentioned I will really
help you out but at the end of the day
it was all worth it thank you guys so
much for watching this video I really
hope it helped you guys out if you have
any comments or suggestions on what
videos you guys want me to do next go
ahead and comment them below and with
that being said I'll see you guys next
time
you
