yeah i would just suggest the it
fundamentals that's what you should
learn all right so if you're an
individual who wants to get started in
the it or cyber security industry and
you're wondering where should i start or
what should i learn before in today's
video topic i will be addressing my
personal opinion on what you should
learn why you should learn what you
should learn and where you should learn
[Music]
alright so by now you should know it's
the ic fundamentals that's what i think
you should learn you can go ahead and
click off this video but if you want a
little bit more detail you can continue
on what exactly are the it fundamentals
well in my opinion they outline a few
different surrounding categories
including hardware which are the
physical parts of a computer and
computing devices you have the software
which is a suite of tools and data which
you know tell the computer how to work
including operating systems software
applications and more so think about
like a windows 10 or linux then you have
networking which is the exchange and
transportation of data between computing
devices so understanding how that works
applications which is computer software
or programs used to carry out specific
tasks you know such as word processing
or editing or email clients and then you
have the security basics my favorite
right understanding the added elements
on top of the listed uh elements or
categories that i just
outlined now i personally believe if you
started from the very beginning you're
going to set yourself up for a better
success and i'll tell you that reason in
a moment now while learning the it
fundamentals it's important to keep in
mind some essential concepts and skills
required within the it industry and this
includes skills such as configuring and
troubleshooting
[Music]
just like anything that you learn in
school you gotta first understand the
basics of course you could just throw
yourself deep into the woods and have no
idea what's going on and maybe yes you
could complete the problem but let's
just say you want to complete some
complex math equation well you have to
know the basics of the symbols
subtraction addition such as this nice
complex math equation i think you
i don't know how to do this
you know those or if you want to get a
little spicy and you want to mix some
elements together you got to know the
periodic table i think i don't really
know i'm not a chemistry major well the
same goes for it in my opinion you get
the point now sure you could provision a
kali linux vm and you could use john
ripper and start cracking those facebook
passwords don't actually do that or you
know you can throw yourself deep into
the woods of a project and sometimes
that method works but the question
becomes if you have no technological or
any i.t skills background how do you
know you know what to secure in the
context of cyber security if you don't
even know how the technology tool
principle concept works right if you
can't understand what a layer 2 switch
does from you know a high level overview
how do you know you're going to need to
apply port security you know in the
context of a layer 2 switch well you
won't know because you don't know how a
layer 2 switch works in the high level
and that's why i suggest the it
fundamentals it's great way to get the
basics down you can build those
foundational skills and then you can
throw yourself into the woods of you
know kali linux if you want to
[Music]
there are hundreds of resources out
there both free and affordable alright
one moment of self promo you can skip to
this time stamp if you don't care about
this but there are free courses i have
out there one is on udemy it's a
complete introduction to cyber security
right so this is going to be a very high
level overview of cyber security in i.t
and we address some of the very basics
such as
hardware and networking devices so why
not just give away the course for free
if you're watching this in the next
three days of this upload you can go
sign up for it
for free but i do also have another
course it's more of a very much so
practical hands-on course that i had
released last year and i added some a
few updates to it this is a great course
to get started and now enough for the
cell promo all right so some platforms
include free code cam they have a plenty
of crash courses out there udemy has
plenty of basic it courses you have
plenty of youtube crash courses i'll
leave some that i think are noteworthy
including ones that are released from
google itself which is a great way to
start a humble bundle which is a book
provider in the form of ebooks that you
can see and find if there are any
bundles out there one more thing to note
and that is three is a great place to
start with my beginners course it's a
lot of theory not so much practical or
hands-on you gotta get started with
understanding the concepts
but
one thing to note is to have a hands-on
practical approach once you've maybe
started some of those basics i have a
resources page with a complete list of
projects you can just check out it's all
free you don't have to worry about
paying
and you can just look at the different
resources project ideas and how to go
about solving those projects on that
website this video has been short i hope
it's been useful and helpful i did this
video a few years ago and i thought i
would go ahead and provide an update for
2021 so i hope everything is well and
until the next video have a good day
