[Music]
hello everyone this is the scene from
our Eureka and I welcome you all to this
session in which I am going to talk
about selecting the correct predictive
modeling technique so let's take a look
at the agenda for this session first of
all I will give a brief introduction to
what is predictive analysis and then I
will talk about various predictive
analysis techniques that we have moving
further I will discuss how you can
choose the correct technique and finally
to sum up this session I will discuss a
few predictive analysis models as well
so I hope you are clear with the agenda
also don't forget to subscribe to your
rekha for more exciting tutorials and
press the bell icon to get the latest
updates on a tear a curve and do check
out Eddy records machine learning
certification program the link is given
in the description box below so without
any further ado let us begin our session
so what exactly is predictive analysis
predictive analysis is the branch of
data analysis which is mainly used to
predict future events or outcomes it is
solely based on data driven approaches
and techniques to reach to conclusions
or solutions the analysis mainly makes
use of analytical techniques and
predictive modeling in order to find
relevant patterns in large data sets in
turn these patterns can be used to make
various opportunities in the businesses
by identifying risk and benefit points
etc predictive analysis is an
anticipatory technique for
forward-looking solutions and insights
to assess any situation most of the
processes in the predictive analysis
incorporates the machine learning
terminologies and algorithms for model
building especially to train the models
so it is significantly important to
understand how to choose these
predictive techniques for model building
and as a beginner it can help you a lot
along the way so let us quickly take a
look at why we do predictive analysis
and I'm sure most of us are aware of the
significant increase in the generation
of data all around us it has seemingly
become quite clear since we are seeing a
lot of data driven approaches but human
has been storing data since a very long
time documenting every detail has been a
prevalent practice with the digital age
it has become to process the data a lot
more easier as well but it has also
opened a lot of opportunities for the
years and years of long and unprocessed
data to understand the relationship
between various aspects of the data and
make use of it in real life as well if
we can use this data for you know
various purposes we have like risk and
fraud detection then there is market
analysis operational movements
operational improvements campaigning etc
and one simple example is to use the
weather data to study the patterns and
use predictive analysis based on the
insights to predict the future events so
let's take a look at a few predictive
analysis techniques as well
first of all we have regression guys so
the main role of regression is the
construction of an efficient model to
predict the dependent attributes from a
bunch of attribute variables a
regression problem is when the output
variable is either real or a continuous
variable that can be weighed or area or
salary etc we can also define regression
as a statistical means that is used in
applications like housing investing etc
it is basically used to predict the
relationship between a dependent
variable and a bunch of independent
variables and simple linear regression
is a regression technique in which the
independent variable has a linear
relationship with the dependent variable
it is basically a technique to analyze
data set which has a dependent variable
and one or more independent variables to
predict the outcome in a binary variable
meaning it will have only two outcomes
and the dependent variable is
categorical in nature dependent variable
is also referred as target variable and
the independent variables are called as
the predictors logistic regression is
basically a special case of linear
regression where we only predict the
outcome in a categorical variable it
predicts the probability of the event
using the log function next up we have
classification guys so classification is
a process of categorizing a given set of
data in two classes and it can be
performed on both structured or
unstructured data
the process starts with predicting the
class of given data points and classes
are often referred to as target label or
categories the classification predictive
modeling is the task of approximating
the mapping function from input
variables to discrete output variables
and the main goal is to identify which
class or the category the new data will
fit into now let us try to understand
this with a simple example gaze so a
heart disease detection can be
identified as a classification problem
and it's a binary classification since
there can only be two classes which is
basically has a heart disease or does
not have a heart disease so the
classifier in this case needs training
data to understand how the given input
variables are related to the class and
once the classifier is trained
accurately it can be used to detect
whether heart disease is there or not
for a particular patient since
classification is also a type of
supervised learning even the targets are
also provided with the input data and
then we have clustering guys so
clustering is basically you know
dividing data points into homogeneous
classes or clusters so the points in the
same group are as similar as possible
and then the points in different groups
are as dissimilar as possible so when a
collection of objects is given we put
the objects into group based on
similarity so that is what clustering is
all about and then we have another
technique which is time series guys so
the time series model comprises a
sequence of data points captured using
time as the input parameter it uses the
last year of data or you know the
previous data to develop a numerical
metric and predicts the data using that
metric is basically a means of
understanding a singular metric is
developing over time with a level of
accuracy beyond simple averages so it
also takes account a seasons of the year
or events that could impact the metric
as well and next up we have forecasting
so forecasting is nothing but using the
historical data to make predictions or
numeric predictions on a new data based
on the learning from the previous data
now that we know what these various
techniques are let us understand how to
choose which one would be the best one
for us while working on any data
so there are a few factors that you
should consider while choosing a model
but before that before talking about
good siding factors let us go through
the processes before a predictive
analysis before you start building the
model first we have the problem
statement I so problem statement tells a
lot of things about the project on how
you should approach it if we were
looking at the problem statement you'll
be able to know what kind of or target
you are looking at so in a heart disease
condition let's say for an example we
have a problem statement to decide or to
analyze or predict if a patient has a
heart condition or not so with that said
we have already figured out the target
variable which is gonna be categorical
in nature which means it basically will
have only two values that is one has a
heart disease or does not have a heart
disease so it becomes quite clear to us
in the problem statement only they're
going to use the classification
technique in this particular example but
then there are a few problems where you
will not be able to figure out which
kind of target variable you will be
choosing on what are all independent
factors will be involved in your
analysis so you move on to the next one
which is extraction and loading and you
basically analyze all your data you know
and transform it and try to make use of
for all the information that you get
from visualization and all these
processes to understand what kind of
variables you are looking at and then
comes the factors to consider before
going for the model which is what is the
target variable so if the target
variable is continuous you should go for
the regression analysis and if the
target variable is categorical you can
go for the classification analysis and
if you are not able to find a target
variable don't worry guys you can
probably go for a clustering analysis so
you'll know which points are similar
which points are not similar making it a
class if you know making clusters and
then you can perform classification on
those clusters as well the next question
you should be asking is is your data
linearly separable and there is no
direct way to actually determine it so
we can go ahead by choosing different
models I mean you can compare different
models to see if your data is actually
linearly separable or not then the next
factor would be the size of the data you
have to look for a factors like the size
of data to determine the possibility of
overfitting and underfitting the model
also some models may not work
efficiently with small
so these are some deciding factors for
choosing a model before you train the
model with the training data and let us
take a look at a few machine learning
models so that we can use for predictive
analysis the first one is linear
regression so linear regression is to be
used when the target variable is
continuous and the dependent variable or
variables is continuous or a mixture of
continuous and categorical and the
relationship between the independent
variable and the dependent variable has
to be linear so that is when you know
when you can use a linear regression
after that we have logistic regression
so logistic regression does not require
a linear relationship between the target
variable and the dependent variables the
target variable is binary assuming value
of either 1 or 0 or maybe you know true
or false something or dichotomous as
well
then we have the k-means clustering
model guys so k-means involves placing
unlabeled data points in separate groups
based on similarities and this algorithm
is used for the clustering model as well
after that we have neural networks so
neural networks help to understand or
help to cluster and classify the data
guys so these algorithms are modeled
loosely after the human brain and are
designed to recognize patterns then we
have decision tree so a decision tree is
a map of the possible outcomes of a
series of related choices it allows an
individual or organization to weigh
possible actions against one another
based on their costs probabilities and
benefits as the name goes it uses a tree
like model of decisions and they can be
used either to drive informal discussion
or to map out an algorithm that predicts
the best choice mathematical after that
we have time series guys so the time
series aggression analysis is a method
for predicting future responses based on
response history and the data for a time
series should be a set of observations
on the values that a variable takes at
different points in time so these are a
few models that we have for predictive
analysis and these are only a few models
and there are other models also that we
can use for predictive analysis and with
that said let's also see a few
applications of predictive analysis so
we can use it for finance guys
so predictive analysis in finance can
help in identifying the risk detection
or the risk detection model to identify
any fraudulent transactions or loans
that you can detect using the predictive
analysis then there is stock prediction
as well you can gather a lot of data in
time and forecast a prediction that can
be taken into account for different
stocks and there goes a lot of process
behind this but for as far as the
application goes stock prediction is a
pretty good application of predictive
analysis in finance then we have
government's guys so governments are
using predictive analysis for
campaigning using it for better
detection weather prediction that is
disaster management they're using
predictive analysis for you know
predicting the impact of policies
different policies that you're making
and they're making surveys etc we can
use the addictive analysis in healthcare
for early detection of diseases such as
cancer any heart ailments that may or
may not be a part of your life several
years later so it helps in predicting
all those diseases or you know
conditions at an early stage and we can
also use predictive analysis in
manufacturing we can actually identify a
production failures and walk on it using
the prediction analysis then there is
poor franchisees using our predictive
analysis - you know predict the outcome
of certain events in the leagues or
something like that they're trying to
make sense of what kind of match they
have the best probability or the best
prediction of winning the chances of
winning there or if they don't have any
winning chances what about you know the
basic points or basic insights that
they're getting from the data that they
should work on to win that particular
game or a match or only and then they
have telecom industries using predictive
analysis for customer support you know
they're trying to segregate or segment
the customers into groups that they are
able to work on them based on their
prediction and now that we have come to
the end of the session guys I hope you
are clear with the concept discussed in
this session and two more about the
techniques and models discussed in this
session
check out the various tutorials we have
in the machine learning series on our
YouTube channel and don't forget to
subscribe to a dirac off for more
exciting tutorials and press the bell
icon to get the lead
just updates on Eddie raker and also
check out Eddie Records machine learning
certification program the link is given
in the description box below and if you
have any questions mention them in the
comment section and we will get back to
you as soon as possible
thank you I hope you have enjoyed
listening to this video please be kind
enough to like it and you can comment
any of your doubts and queries and we
will reply them at the earliest do look
out for more videos in our playlist and
subscribe to Eddie Rica channel to learn
more happy learning
