hey guys this is hmon from Eda today's
session is going to be on machine
learning algorithms so without any
further Ado let's move on to the agenda
to understand what all be covered in
today's session so we'll be following a
top- down approach we'll start from the
basics and understand what is an
algorithm and how it can be used in
machine learning after that we'll
understand what is machine learning
exactly and how a problem can be solved
using machine learning after that we'll
be discussing various techniques using
which a machine can learn and after that
we'll also be discussing some of the
basic algorithms which are used in
machine learning towards the end we'll
be doing a demonstration wherein we'll
see how we can prepare a data set for
the creation and validation of a model
and after that we'll be creating a model
using one of the algorithms that we'll
be learning today all right so guys this
is our agenda for today are we clear
with it okay I'm getting confirmation so
current is clear so is surage Matthew
all right guys since most of you are
clear let's move on to the first topic
of today's discussion that is what is an
algorithm so let's start this topic with
a very generic approach so if you were
to interact with the computer and tell
it how it should execute a particular
task the way you do it is using a
program right so what is a program a
program is basically logic which is
wrapped around a syntax a particular
syntax which is specific to a
programming language now this
programming language could be anything
it could be JavaScript it could be Java
it could be python it could be C it
could be
C++ whatever right but the basic thing
doesn't change that is the logic all
right the logic Remains the Same in
every language having said that what is
this logic this logic is what an
algorithm is all right so in simple
words an algorithm is a stepbystep
procedure towards solving a problem in
the computer world all right so let's
take an example to understand uh this
thing which we have just discussed all
right so let's take an example so this
is a problem or this is an algorithm to
print numbers from 1 to 20 all right so
let's go step by step and understand
what this algorithm is doing so this is
the start position we start over here
and then we uh see that our algorithm is
initializing a variable X to Zero all
right so we initialized a variable X to
Zero and then we incremented it by one
after that we're printing that variable
and we are checking it whether it's less
than 20 so if it's less than 20 if it's
true or if it's yes it goes back and
increments the value Again by one
otherwise it's if it's a no it goes on
and ends the program all right so since
it's a yes right now it goes back and
increments the value by one again so we
have printed one and now we have
incremented the value of x by one again
so now the value is two and then we
print that value so we have now one and
two on the board all right then again it
checks whether it's it's less than 20 if
it's true it goes back again increments
it by one now it's three prints three so
this process goes on until the value of
x reaches 20 so when the value of x is
20 it prints that value and it checks
whether it's less than 20 which is a no
and then it ends the program and hence
you have values which are printed from 1
to 20 all right so this is a step by
step procedure for printing values
between 1 to 20 and this is in similar
way you create other algorithms as well
so as complex an algorithm can be it can
always be represented using a flowchart
all right so guys this is what an
algorithm is now our next topic is what
is machine
learning now for making a machine learn
there are a lot of ways and there are a
lot of algorithms right now since no
problem is the same every problem so if
we take our case all right so we tackled
every problem with a different approach
now algorithms are nothing but approach
for a computer all right now based on
the problem you decide which algorithm
to use right so for now let's understand
what is machine learning so machine
learning is basically uh an artificial
intelligence wherein the machine can
learn on its code meaning uh you have
programmed it once but every every time
it encounters a problem it it should not
be programmed again that is the main
motive of us right it will not be
programmed again it changes its own code
according to the new scenarios it
discovers all right so this is what
machine learning is it itself learns
whatever has to be learned from it we
provide it scenarios we provide it with
past experiences we feed the values and
learning from those past experiences it
comes up with new Solutions
this topic is actually very interesting
to learn about because um you might be
thinking how a machine can actually redo
its code or how can it update it its
code on its own right so sounds
interesting right so this is what we'll
be doing in the next few sessions that
will learn about machine learning so
today's session is going to be a very
basic session we'll be seeing how
machine learning actually works what is
the basis for machine learning all right
so by the end of the session you'll have
a fair idea of how things basically work
with machine learning but for the
advanced part of machine learning we
have the next sessions lined up so I
don't want you guys to miss any of those
sessions all right okay so moving ahead
now so we have learned what machine
learning is but like I said there are
different approaches towards solving a
problem right so there are basically
different ways a machine can learn let's
see the different ways a machine can
learn basically there are three kinds of
ways so the first way is supervised
learning the second way is reinforcement
learning and then you have the
unsupervised learning right so let's
discuss each of these in detail and
understand what these actually are so
the first kind of learning is called
supervised learning all right so what is
supervised learning so supervised if you
if you concentrate on the word
supervised supervised means when you are
monitoring someone or when you're
constantly monitoring someone or making
them understand something so you can
compare this scene with a classroom
scene all right so you sit in a class
and the teacher explains you difficult
Concepts right the concepts that cannot
be learned on your own that's why a
teacher is there right so the way we
teach machines and supervised learning
is like this so we provide them in a
with a particular set of inputs and we
give the corresponding answers as well
for example if I uh if I say that U what
are the parameters for deciding whether
it will drain today or not so the
humidity should be above some certain
level temperature should be above some
certain level the wind should be in a
certain direction and then if these
scenarios are there it will rain right
so we give a lot of inputs to the
computer with this data and with each
data we assign one it rains and zero it
does not rain so if the temperature is
high and the humidity is high and the
wind is in a particular direction it
will rain so we say one and if the
humidity is low and the temperature is
uh low as well so we say it will not
rain so I'll give it a certain input
that today it's 35Â° Cel the humidity 97%
the wind is in this direction will it
rain today all right so the machine will
actually see okay so my from my past
experiences I saw that okay when this
was the temperature and the humidity was
this it rained so it'll compare that
according to it and it'll come up with
the probability and hence come up with
the solution on an answer whether it
will rain or not right so this is what
supervised learning is so basically we
are providing it with the answer and the
inputs as well all right so um if you
were to discuss it in a more General way
so you can take your kids as an example
so like I said your kids go to school
right so your teacher is explaining
Concepts to your kid using example so
you tell them so if you're trying to
make them understand something you're
giving them examples as and this is the
way it happens right and that's what we
do as well we in supervised learning we
give the machines example so um example
that day it rained and the scene was
like this the temperature was this the
humidity was this and hence it rained
right so if the inputs are like these
you come up with the decision okay it'll
rain right so this is what supervised
learning is uh the our next topic is
unsupervised learning so basically if
you understood what is supervisor
learning so okay so first guys any doubt
in what super supervised learning
is okay uh Sur says is clear
others all right cool so our next topic
is now unsupervised learning so what is
unsupervised learning so you can
understand unsupervised learning by
comparing it straight away with
supervised learning all right so in
supervised learning like I said you were
giving them answers as well to inputs
but in unsupervised learning you don't
do that you just give them inputs now
you are not giving telling your computer
what will be the answer so what computer
does is or what it if if you think
logically the only thing computer can do
with the inputs is find a pattern behind
it or find a structure in it all right
so this is what the computer actually
does so in unsupervised learning what it
does is you provideed inputs right so
for example I want my computer
to I I give my computer some inputs on
fruit all right so I don't tell the
computer what the fruit is actually but
I give other parameters such as how big
it is or what color it has say what is
the taste of that fruit all right so
when I give all these conditions or all
these parameters to my computer so it
groups the fruits bases on that so
basically it'll group it on the basis of
size it'll group it B on the basis of
taste it'll group it on the basis of
color right and then it shows us that
data and then we can actually label so
okay so if the size is is big and the
color is this you this this fruit will
be known as an apple all right now what
kind of problems are actually there in
unsupervised learning uh could be when
we don't know uh whether there is a
correlation in the data or whether
there's a structure in the data for
example if you talk about big data right
so big data is nothing but uh a huge
chunk of data right so we don't know
that that R is random it's not
structured all right so whenever we want
to find a structure in data we use UNS
viice learning now it's the job of the
algorithm to figure out what is if
there's a pattern in the data and if at
all there's a pattern it gives us that
patter and hence we can decide how we
can move ahead all right so if you have
structure or if you have if you know how
that data can be differentiated how it
can be structured then supervised
learning can be applied on it but if you
don't know what that data structure is
we use unsupervised learning all right
so guys are we clear with what
supervised learning is and what
unsupervised learning
is okay so if you were to take the same
example forward so we talked about your
kids in the previous example so in the
previous example that is supervised
learning your kids were learning in
school right so your teacher was were
telling them examples and were teaching
them how what a particular problem is
and how it can be tackled but UNS
supervised learning is when your your
kids are learning on their own so they
have their books right so they're trying
to figure out what are thing is on their
own so that is what unsupervised
learning is moving on to the third part
which is reinforcement learning so what
is reinforcement learning so
reinforcement learning basically is um
when you your computer is trying to take
decisions all right so um what kind of
problems uh can be include in
reinforcement learning is uh say when
you're when you wanted to teach your
computer how to play chess now you
cannot tell your computer what to do
because there are a lot of things uh
there are like a zillion possibilities
or a zillion moves that can be done in
chess so you cannot tell each and every
move to your computer but what you can
tell is whether he did right or wrong
all right and that is what uh
reinforcement learning is for another
example that you can take is when you're
are training your dog all right so you
cannot tell your dog what to do because
he will not understand but you can
actually reward your dog if he does
right and you can punish him if he does
wrong right so that same same thing is
actually applied in reinforcement
learning as well so it basically the
computer's aim is to maximize rewards
right when it does actions so it'll come
up with a solution which has the maximum
rewards in place so we Define if it does
a certain action you'll get a reward and
then from its past experiences it
understands okay when I did this I got a
reward so let me do something similar
I'll get more rewards right and that is
what reinforcement learning is all about
about so if you were to take the same
example forward uh let's say your kid
when you're parenting your kid um you
tell him you cannot control what your
kid does throughout the day right you
cannot tell him each and everything but
if he does a bad thing you can actually
scold him and tell him that what he did
was wrong and then he'll understand okay
I don't have to do this thing because I
get scoldings when I do this thing all
right or else you can appreciate your
kid when he does a good thing right so
he'll understand okay I was appreciated
for this so maybe this is the behavior
which is expected from me so this is
what reinforcement learning is right uh
so guys are we clear with what
supervised unsupervised and
reinforcement learning is any doubts in
any of these three learning techniques
which are there in machine
learning okay I've got a question from
Anita so Anita is asking me can you give
me one more example for reinforcement
learning okay okay so consider this so
you have a temperature control system in
your at your home right now that
temperature control system has to decide
whether I should lower the temperature
or I should increase it all right so
this is an application which actually
uses reinforce learning because it has
to make a decision now so whenever
there's a decision that has to be made
you use reinforcement learning now how
will it decide whether it will increase
the temperature or decrease the
temperature it'll decide based on its
past experiences right so it'll see what
what were the what what is basically the
user or how a user responds to a certain
temperature all right and then it'll
come up with the decision okay so if my
temperature is 32 right now maybe I need
to lower it down maybe I need to lower
it down to 30 right so this is just an
example there are a lot of parameters
that are taken place how many people are
there in the room and everything but
then this is how the algorithm works
when it takes decision based on its past
experiences right so if you go by the
definition so rein Forman learning was
actually inspired by the human behavior
or the rat behavior when it is there in
the Maze right so when a rat is there in
maze it has to decide whether it should
stop it should go left or right all
right so that is what this algorithm has
been inspired from any more doubts guys
any more doubts in supervised
unsupervised and reinforcement
learning okay so I've got confirmation
from the most of you since most of you
are clear let's move on to the next
topic we now know what are the different
ways a machine can learn right now let's
discuss how you actually can solve a
problem using machine learning all right
so now a problem comes up to you now how
will you decide or how will you start
with that problem so let's shed a light
on that so whenever there's a problem
that problem can be categorized in five
ways so those five ways are like this is
this A or B is this viewed how much or
how many many how is this organized and
what should I do next so your problem
can would want an answer which which
could be is this a or b as in you you
you have a problem which is asking uh
say you are differentiating between
fruits is this an apple or is this a
banana all right so when you have these
kind of problems you use classification
algorithms the next category is is this
weird analyze patterns all right so when
you have problem where you have to
analyze platin wherein you have to find
an an anomaly or uh an odd one out you
actually go for anomal detection
algorithms all right the next category
is how much or how many so when you have
to deal with numbers right so when you
want uh some numeric values you want to
get a certain um value or for example
what should be the minimum number of
hours that you should put in so that you
get promotion all right so when you you
have these kind of problems so you apply
regression algorithms onto that then we
have how is this organized all right so
when you have these kind of questions
you use clustering algorithms because
basically you're trying to find out what
is the structure behind a certain data
set right so when you're trying to know
the structure behind a certain problem
you use clustering algorithms and then
you have a category which says what
should I do next so when a decision has
to be made then algorithms for
reinforcement learning are used all
right so guys any doubts in any of these
five categories that we have just
discussed so basically what I'm trying
to tell you is that each question so any
kind of problem that you come up with
can be categorized under these five
categories all right it cannot be Beyond
these five categories it will definitely
come up in these five categories and
then you can relate to a category and
then come up with a algorithm so when
you have a set number of outputs you use
classification algorithms all right so
it works like that so any doubt in
whatever we have discussed so
far okay guys since most of you are now
clear all right so let's move on to the
next topic so we have discussed so when
we have these kind of problems we come
up we we can solve this using these
algorithms right so let's learn about
these algorithms now that is
classification and reduction regression
clustering and reinforcement right so
let's shed a light on that so let's
start with the algorithms machine
learning algorithm so the first
algorithm is the classification
algorithm so like I said when you have a
set number of outputs so basically for
questions like this so is it cold
outside today so it's the answer could
be either yes or no so you have only two
outputs the outputs could be either yes
or the output could be no all right or
the next kind of question could be will
you go to work today so it's either a
yes no or maybe right so you will either
go for work or you'll not go for work or
you maybe you'll say maybe I'll go to
work right but there is no other answer
which can come up right so when you have
these kind of conditions you come up
with you solve it using classification
algorithms now when you have two outputs
as in like for example yes or no it is
called two class classification but when
you have more than two choices as in uh
in our second question we have yes no or
maybe right so this is called multiclass
classification so whenever there's an
output which is set as in it is either
true or false or Z one or yes or no
whatever right so if it's fixed you use
classification algorithms this is
basically the gist that you should get
out of this any doubts and any doubt in
whatever we have discussed okay uh so
let's move on to our second algorithm
now which is the anomal anomaly
detection algorithms so uh in these
algorithm you analyze a certain pattern
and you you get alerted whenever there's
an anomaly or something which is not
usual which happens all right for
example as you can see in the figure
that you have a pattern you have some
blue men right and then suddenly a red
kind of person comes up so this
algorithm will actually flag that person
because he breaks the pattern he is
something which is not expected right
and he becomes an anomaly and this is
what anomaly Direction algorithms are
all about now what is the use case for
anomaly Direction algorithms could be um
uh for example in credit card companies
so in credit card companies each
transaction of yours is monitored right
and whenever there's a transaction which
is not usual right which doesn't match
your uh daily transaction pattern you
get alerted for it so they they they
might confirm with you whether you only
made this transaction all right so when
you have these kind of problems you use
anomaly detection algorithms to solve
them the third algorithm is regression
algorithm so like I said whenever you
have to come up with the value right so
you use regression algorithms so for
example um what will be be the
temperature for tomorrow right so
whatever value will come out of this
will be a number right so let's say I
came up with 28Â° C so I got that
temperature using some formulas right
and I came up with that numeric value so
whenever I come up with a numeric kind
of value or whenever my problem demands
that I have to get a mathematical value
I go with regression
algorithms so the second example for
this could be whenever um I want to give
a discount to my customer now how much
discount should I give that customer so
that I get more customers and at the
same time I do not go in loss as well
right I stay in profit so whenever this
kind of problem comes up I can go on and
use a regression algorithm and solve
this kind of problem all right uh moving
ahead uh we have clustering algorithms
so clustering algorithms are basically
used um so we discussed unsupervised
learning remember so in unsupervised
learning we have clustering algorithm
wherein we try to establish a structure
right so we have some unstructured data
that you want to make sense of so what
we'll do is we'll pass it through a
clustering algorithm and if there is a
pattern which a computer can see it
comes up with that pattern and shows us
like this so for example I feed data to
my computer right and my data then
applies clustering algorithm onto that
so this is the kind of output that I'll
get so uh it'll categorize it under
group a Group B and Group C and then I
can make a decision whether what what I
can what I want to do with this data
that I've got all right so this computer
doesn't understand anything what this
data is all about it doesn't understand
maybe it's of cars maybe it's of food
maybe it's of uh money right so the
computer doesn't understand but what
computer understands is numbers right
and that is how it relates it to each
another and comes up with groups now
when it comes up with groups maybe you
you want to use some other algorithm
onto it and decide or come up with the
solution but this is what a clustering
algorithm will give you right having
said that let's move on to the next
algorithm now which is reinforcement
algorithm right so um we discussed
reinforcement learning so that is what
reinforcement algorithms are all about
whenever you have to make a decision
right and so whenever you have to make a
decision and your decision is based on
the past experiences of your machine or
whatever inputs that you have given to
your machine you use reinforcement
learning now for example whenever you
you wanted to train your computer how to
play chess it'll use reinforcement
learning and when it has learned or when
you have created a model for that and
your game is actually being played by
the computer each decision that the
computer makes is also based or is also
taken from reinforcement learning the
other example like I told you was of a
temperature control system wherein your
system had to decide whether it should
increase the temperature or it should
decrease the temperature right so
whenever these kind of problems are
there right you use reinforcement
learning or reinforcement
algorithms okay guys so this brings us
to the end of machine learning algorithm
so so we have basically covered the
basics which are there we have covered
the basics of the algorithms which I
used in machine learning so now if I
give you a problem you should be able to
identify which algorithm will fit into
this problem right what each algorithm
is all about how many algorithms are
there we'll discuss that in our later
class but for now for today you should
understand if I have this problem okay
so if I have this kind of problem I
should apply this algorithm to it how
will I apply this algorithm we'll be
discussing that in the later class but
this is the idea that you should get
today this is step one if you are
through with step one it it becomes very
easy because now just about learning
about what each algorithm does but this
is the concept behind machine learning
this is the concept that should be set
in your mind that whenever this kind of
problem comes up okay so I have to find
a structure behind this problem okay
I'll use clustering algorithms okay so I
have solutions to this kind of problem
okay I'll use supervised learning and
I'll be using algorithms and supervised
learning for this right so I have a
fixed number of outputs for this I'll
use classification algorithm for that
all right so this is the basic
understanding that you should get from
this session today all right so enough
of theory guys so we have now understood
the concept behind machine learning now
let's see first of all you you guys
won't be knowing how the inputs are
actually given to a system to create a
model right so these inputs are actually
called data sets right so now what we'll
be doing is we'll be seeing how we can
prepare a data set to actually create a
model and then also verifying that model
whe whether that model is is predicting
right or wrong right so let's take a
sample data set so basically what we'll
be doing our machine learning
demonstrations in R so I expect you guys
to download R studio and the r language
in the next class because the next class
will also have a lot of demos for today
you can just see how am I doing right
now and later you'll have the code in
your LMS you can use that code and
execute it and like be ready in the next
class because in the next class it's
going to be a lot of demo right but
today um our demonstration what we're
going to do is so this is guys the input
that you get so these These are the
values this is a data set which is
called empty car it's a sample data set
in R right so whenever you have to
create a model you basically divide your
data set because you have to validate
that model at a later stage as well so
you divide your data set between the
training part and the testing part so
the train part is used to create a model
and that testing part will be used to
actually verify that model all right now
how you can uh divide the data set is
what I'm going to tell you in a few
moments but is this clear to you guys
why are we dividing the data set we are
dividing the data set because first we
will create a model so for creating a
model the computer should be fed some
value right so when it'll be fed some
values it'll make sense out of it and it
will come up with a model now this model
can be used to predict values right but
how will we verify whether it is
predicting correct values or not so for
that we have the testing uh data set so
we'll be picking up some values from the
testing data set appearing in the values
and we'll see whether it is producing
the correct output or not all right are
we clear with our problem statement all
right guys so let's begin our
demonstration then so this is your R
console guys what you'll be doing is
first you'll write this command which
says data empty cars so what this
basically will do is it'll import the
sample data set called empty cars all
right so I've got a variable now which
is empty cars so let's let me show you
this data set so this is how my data is
like so basically these are the car
names so there are names of the car and
then there are some values associated
with that car for example this is the
displacement of the car this is the
weight of the car and based on the
weight and displacement and the
horsepower and the other values you have
these two values which is whether it has
a v kind of engine or whether it has a
straight engine all right so if hat has
a v engine it'll be a one if it has a
straight engine it'll be a zero all
right so some values might indicate that
it can have a v engine as well as a
straight engine as well but with today
uh what we are going to do is we are
going to predict basically we'll be
taking in two values we'll be taking WT
that is the weight of the car and we'll
be taking disp that is the displacement
of the car and then we'll be predicting
whether this car will have a v engine or
a straight engine so we'll be creating a
model in the later part that of today's
demonstration but for now we have to
divide this data set between the
training data set and the testing data
set so let's see how will we do that so
uh first of all we have to import a
library called CA tools all right so
we'll import that Library so it is set
all right so now I will write split I
will Define a variable called split and
then I write sample do split and now I
will enter the data set which is empty
cars and then I will specify the split
ratio equal to now I want my training
data set to be 70% of that data set and
my testing data set to be 30% all right
so I'll specify 7 which specifies 70%
all right so basically what I'm
specifying here is that I want to split
my data set empty cars into 7030 ratio
all right so let's run this command all
right this command is run all right so
now I will run this particular variable
I will execute this particular task so
it has now been executed so what
basically has now happened is it has
picked out random values right and for
each value it has assigned either a true
or a false right so 70% of the data set
has true is true and 30% of data set is
false now we'll be leveraging that and
we'll be deciding a training and testing
data set based on that so training data
set
is equal
to
subset of empty
car where split is equal to equal to
true all right so basically what I've
specified here is my training dat set
will be a subset of Mt cars where the
split is true right so my true is 70% of
the data set right remember so now we'll
be ex uing
this so I've executed it and similarly
for testing I'll
specify that the split is
false right so I'll write false over
here and then I will execute the
statement all right so let's check
whether we have splitted our data set or
not so let's check the testing data set
so as you can actually see it from here
that testing has around 12
observations and training has around 20
observations now so the data set has
been splitted our Mt cars had 32
observations we have split it in 7030
ratio so our training data set has now
20 observations that are 20 rows and a
testing data set has 12 observations all
right so let me show you my testing data
set now so as you can see this is my
testing data
set this was the whole data set that is
this this is the whole of Mt car and
this is the data set that has been
divided now so my testing data set is
30% of this and it has these many values
all right so now we'll be we have
splitted our data set now let's now
create a model all right so the creation
of the module model is same for each and
every algorithm just the command changes
so let me apply a regression algorithm
right now it's called logistic
regression all right so what listic
regression does is it comes up with a
value right and with that value you
decide whether it will be a one or a
zero so my logistic regression actually
you might ask a question to me that um
okay so this kind of problem we have to
decide it should be either one or a zero
so it's a classification problem true
guys but behind that classification we
are actually calculating probabilities
right so we actually coming up with a
number right so when so if we are coming
up with the number we use regression
algorithms but when you talk about
logistic regression logistic regression
actually comes under the classify
classification algorithms as well and
the regression algorithms as well all
right so we'll be applying logistic
regression and the logistic regression
will then give me a probability of as in
when I give him the values WT that is
the weight of the car and the
displacement of the car it'll give me a
probability whether this car will have a
VSS engine what is the probability of
this car having a VSS engine right so
this is the probability that I'll get
and this is the model that I'll be
creating right now so let me clear clear
my console all right so for creating a
model you have to type command which is
like this so you'll type in
model all right and for logistic
regression the command is
glm and then you'll be giving the
formula so the formula is we have to
predict VSS right we have to predict
what is the value of VSS will it be a
one or a zero so we'll say vs tilt This
Means versus WT plus
DP all right so I want to take into
account the weight of the car and the
displacement of the car and I want to
predict when the weight of the car is WT
and the displacement of the car is disp
what will be the value of vs this is the
formula that I want my model to predict
all right now uh now I'll be specifying
which data set this model has to be
applied on so since I have splitted my
data set so I want it to be applied on
training and then I have to specify the
family of the model so basically it's a
one or a zero right the values the
answer that the vs value is in one or
zero right so the family is binomial so
this is what you'll be specifying right
so let's execute this particular
statement now we click on run all right
so my model has now been created let's
so let me show you the summary of the
model
now all right so as you can
see uh I have came up with a model and
it has given me some coefficient values
which has been calculated now what are
these coefficient values don't right now
I'll be explaining this in the next
class but for now what you have to
understand is what I'm trying to make
you guys understand is that we are
coming up with numbers all right so we
are not doing any clustering we're not
doing any decision making we're coming
up with numbers and that is the reason
we use regression algorithm now further
as you will see in the next step I will
be predicting a value which will be the
probability of the car having a vs
engine all right and then I will teach
you how you can actually classify that
problem as a one or zero all right so
hang on so now what we'll be doing is we
have a model right and this is our
testing data set so as you can see these
are the values that we are going to
predict right now so uh what we'll be
doing now is we will actually be feeding
the WT and the ISP of this testing data
set and mind you guys our model has been
created from the testing data set all
right so from the training data set so
we have not so our model has not
encountered the testing data set as of
now so these are basically like real
values to our model right so now we'll
be predicting so let's take an example
car here so let's take Ford Penta L and
predict whether this car will have a vs
engine or a straight engine all right so
let's feed in the values for that so
we'll be creating a data frame first so
we'll be feeding our values in the data
variable
da.
frame and
then we the WT value is so for Ford pan
L the WT value is
3.17 so let's feed in
that 170 and the disp value
is 351 so let's feed in that as well so
we have fed the values
now let's predict it so we'll be
predicting our answer in this
variable so the command for predicting
is predict model that is the model that
we have to predict from the data the
data which has the values and type of
answer that is response so I want a
response now what I'll be getting from
this is a probability right the
probability of this car having a vssn
now if the probability is less than 0.5
that means that the probability is uh
that that means that it will not have a
VSS engine the odds of it having a vs
engine becomes very less and hence we
will consider it as a false but if it is
greater than 0.5 that means the odds of
having that of the car having vs engine
becomes more right so we will consider
that that car will have a vs engine if
its value if its probability value is
greater than 0.5 so having said that
let's execute the statement and then
let's print the answer for Penta L we
predicted that the VSS probability the
probability of that car having vs engine
is
0.7 let's compare whether our Ford Penta
L has a vs engine so as you can see
there is zero over here that means that
Ford doesn't have a vs engine so if it
doesn't have a vs engine it has a
straight engine and we have predicted it
right our value is correct having said
that let's predict one more value for a
car which has a VS kind of engine so
let's pick a car from here let's take
this car which is Toyota Corona all
right so let's feed in values for Toyota
Corona so for Toyota Corona uh our
displacement is
120.1 so let us read that
120.1 and my my weight is 2.46 5 so
let's feed in that as
well let's predict the value
now so as you can see the probability of
Corona having a vs engine is 77 all
right so it has a 77% probability of it
having a vs engine let's check whether
it has a vs engine so yes it has a vs
engine and hence our model predicted the
right value all right guys so we created
a model which can predict values now so
you can feed in any displacement and any
weight and this model will tell you
whether that car should have a vs engine
or a straight engine right so this
brings us to the end of our session guys
so before that do you have any doubts in
the demo that we did right now any
doubts and I'll explain it right away
all right so Anita has a question she's
asking me uh she understands this is is
a regression algorithm but why is it a
classification algorithm also okay so
another as I told you that regression
algorithms uh basically compute values
all right you are calculating
probability here but based on this
probability you are actually classifying
okay let me show you how this will
happen uh just wait a
second okay so let me type in this for
you so if you type in this command and
you specify that if it's greater than
05 specify it as true all right so I
just specified greater than 0.5 and then
let's check what will be our answer
right now so it says true so now you
have specified that for this value which
was 77% if it's greater than 0.5 as it's
true so basically you are now
classifying that um this car that Toyota
Corona will have a vs engine all right
now if you were to do that for for panta
L let me do that for you also so
basically I'll just have to change the
data values so that is 351 for this
displacement is 351 and weight is
3170 all right so let's predict the
value again all right so now it says
false right so you have classified VSS
as true or false so true is when it will
have a vs engine and Falls as well it
will not have a vs engine right so you
regress to a probability and based on
that probability you classify it and
that is the reason you call this
particular algorithm that is logistic
algorithm as a classification algorithm
as well as a regression algorithm as
well all right uh does that make it
clear to you
Anita all right any more question guys
anything that you want to understand all
right so Tracy says nice session thank
you okay you're welcome Tracy any more
question guys and I shall explain it to
you again no worries I I shall explain
the whole session to you again any
doubts okay since most of you are clear
let me end this session now let us wrap
up this
session so thank you for attending this
session guys I hop you guys learn
something new today the score that we
have executed today has been uploaded in
your LMS and as well I have uploaded
some assignment as well I want you to
solve that assignment and come back in
the next session with it all right any
question if you find any difficulty in
in doing anything you have our support
team which is available for you 24/7 all
right guys so thank you for attending
today's session I hope you have great
day ahead goodbye I hope you enjoyed
listening to this video please be kind
enough to like it and you can comment
any of your doubts and queries and we
will reply to them at the earliest do
look out for more videos in our playlist
And subscribe to our Eda channel to
learn more happy learning
