session on top five Python libraries for
data science data science is one of the
most important fields right now and
Python is by far one of the most popular
languages to perform data science
operations in so the reason why python
is so popular in the field of data
centers because it has a lot of
libraries that make it easy for you to
perform data science processes so we'll
take a look at top five or five most
popular ones in data science data built
in Python and these libraries can help
you in your daily basis as well so let's
take a look at that but before we begin
please click on the subscribe button and
click on the notification well I can't
would never miss another update so let's
take a look at the agenda for this
session we'll begin by understanding and
taking a look at numpy then we'll take a
look at pandas then we'll take a look at
scikit-learn then we'll take a look at
matplotlib then we'll take a look at
tensorflow and finally we'll take a look
at a few more libraries that might not
be as popular but are definitely worth
taking a look into let's take a look at
numpy so in case you have done data
science work for any number of times or
if you've even started with data sign
numpy is by far one of the one of those
libraries that you might have come
across and you might have worked with
them as well
numpy is the foundation for many other
data science libraries as well they use
numpy underneath the hood it's an open
source Python package and it's used for
scientific computing it's very easy to
use and it's very very efficient it in
terms of scientific computation and it
suposed large multi-dimensional arrays
in matrices the reason why Python numpy
is used over Python lists tuples and
sets and so on in build data structure
mainly because numpy is more efficient
when it comes to handling data even
infraction point or whole numbers it
takes care of several low-level details
that comes that you might need to deal
with when you're delivering scientific
numbers and numbers with great accuracy
and precision so and it also makes it
really really fast for us to access and
manipulate a large list of number arrays
like Python lists and Python arrays are
also very popular in this field but
numpy is by far the most popular one
because of its speed and accuracy let's
take a look at some of the features that
has made numbers so popular so it
provides fast precompiled functions for
numerical routines so there are several
functions available in the numpy library
that you can take a
add and perform your scientific and
numerical functions on particular
numbers you can take a look at the sine
function cosine function so on and so
its array oriented and provides much
better efficiency rather than you using
the Python lists they you can use the
numpy arrays or ND arrays as they are
called they are very easy to create
they're very easy to use and they are
very powerful as well as they are very
efficient then comes the support for
object-oriented programming so
object-oriented programming
anyone who's built any sort of
application using Python is familiar
that object-oriented programming is by
far one of the most popular paradigms
for building your applications and since
you are familiar with it Python Python
numpy does support object oriented
approach and it's compact and fast
computation with vectorization so of
Ector is basically a one dimensional
array and since you have a vectorized
vectorized list you can perform the
computations that you want to such as
addition multiplication sine wave
calculation and many other calculations
extremely fast with the inbuilt
functions of the numpy package now let's
take a look at pandas so pandas is also
an open source Python packet it provides
high performance and easy to use data
structures for data analysis tools and
full label data so in case you are
wondering if you've ever worked with a
data set that has rows and columns and
you need to make sure that you are
handling them properly that you are able
to extract data from it extract the
required data from required column
specific columns get data from the
entire data set that matches certain
criteria pandas makes this kind of tasks
really this kind of data manipulation
and data wrangling really this is why
pandas is so popular it's very easy to
perform and win your own kinds of data
manipulation pipelines put your data
through it and get the plain source of
data for your machine learning models to
use and understand let's take a look at
some of the features that have made
pandas so essential so it makes data
manipulation and conversion very easy it
allows you to read data from several
sources with several encoding so if you
have a text file if you have a CSV file
if you have a database SQLite database
file or if you have a entire table with
data you can read all of it using pandas
you don't need to get multiple
libraries and create your own
abstractions pandas can help you do it
for you and it can read multiple end
codings as well so these are codings you
can think of these encoding is a
different way of representing the text
that you see in your data format in
binary format so that's how these work
and there are many other encoding is
available such as utf-8 utf-16 and if
you know the encoding then you can use
pandas with that encoding as well and
pandas will take care of all the naylet
low-level details foil it has several
ways of dealing with null and not
available values so any N and null
values if you have a data set if you
worked with or are planning to work on a
real world data set it's quite common to
see datasets that have some columns that
do not have a lot of information they
have a lot of null values null means
absence of values not zero but absence
of values so this absence of values
could be a result of things like
unavailability of equipment from which
data can be collected unavailability of
resources maybe the person who's asked
for data simply doesn't have the data
may may be there are other reasons for
that as well so all of that it drips
into your data but now you need to take
care of that and when you do pandas can
be extremely helpful in that scenario it
has in build support for plotting data
so there are other libraries that can
allow you to plot data as well but
pandas has inbuilt support for plotting
data so if you want to create simple
plots out of the data set that you have
extracted you can do it using pandas
quite easily
then comes scikit-learn so after we have
taken data perform scientific
computations perform the data
manipulation tasks and created a data
set that we are happy with then comes
with the task of building models then is
where scikit-learn comes into play so
it's an open source Python package it
has various feed classification
regression and clustering algorithms
that can be applied to any data sets
that you have it has some built in data
sets as well for you to practice on and
if you have your own data sets then you
can just import the algorithm that you
want to perform the data classification
regression on clustering on train the
model and then make predictions and you
can also take a look at the accuracies
that were created using the models that
you have created let's take a look at
some of the features that has made
scikit-learn so popular so scikit-learn
makes it really easy to build models on
predefined algorithm
so if you've ever worked with algorithms
like logistic regression linear
regression random forests many other
algorithms you don't have to code them
from your hand all the time because
scikit-learn already has these
algorithms implemented for you you just
need to feed in the data need to train
it and then you need to check the
accuracy now in case you have not worked
with any of the libraries that have
mentioned so far such as numpy pandas or
scikit-learn then you can check out our
channel we have a lot of content
regarding these libraries you can take a
look at the content you can learn the
all of these things from scratch for
free and you can get a head start in
your journey on data sense and also if
you have any other questions regarding
these libraries regarding anything that
I'm talking about you can ask them in
the chat box and our team is there to
help you out with that so let's take a
look at the next thing so it makes it
very easy for creating training and
testing set of data many times when you
load the data set and then you need to
split the data set into two parts first
part will be used for training the other
part you will be used for testing
training part is basically used to teach
the model what you want it to do after
the model learns from the data the
training data
it's then the the job of the testing
data to help the model make prediction
and then check whether or not those
predictions were correct if they were
correct and then the our model is
performing really well and if most of
them are incorrect then our module is
not performing well then it has
functions to convert categorical data
into numerical now this is one of the
most common things that we come across
on a daily basis as data scientists we
have data sets but all the data sets are
not in proper format any machine
learning model can only understand
numerical data and not categorical data
so we need to convert these data points
into numerical points as well now this
is a little difficult
many attempts but scikit-learn makes it
really easy it has inbuilt encoders that
help you do that and there are several
ways of doing it I'm not going to go
into detail you can take a look around
our YouTube channel and find out videos
and you can take a look at those videos
they'll be teaching you something really
important about these kinds of
technologies and when it comes to
categorical to numerical conversion it's
by far one of the most common uses of
cyclotron and it also makes it really
easy for us to check whether our model
is playing correctly whether it's about
its accuracy is
and how you can use it then comes
matplotlib who if you've ever tried to
visualize some data set matplotlib is by
far the most common library that is used
impacted so my plot nib is also an open
source Python package but it is used to
create several different kinds of plots
not just one scatter plot or cover that
it is it's a huge library that gives you
a lot of control over what kind of plots
you want to create and how those plots
should look this plots could be simple
plots they could be graphs they could be
bar charts histograms they could be
simple visualizations
3d visualizations and many other things
so let's take a look at some of the
features matplotlib makes it really
really easy for us to create multiple
plots based on a single data set so if
you have a single data set you can just
input different kind of plots from
matplotlib and you can start creating
those plots based on the data set that
you have it also allows you to create
multiple plots inside a single figure so
if you want to make several plots and
want to display them side-by-side you
can do it using my problem it also
allows you to plot images this is one of
the most common themes that occurs when
you're trying to perform image
classification and if you want to print
the images so that the person who is
using your data sense project can take a
look at what the images are all about
instead of them having to open each
image one by one you can just display it
in your Python code and to do that you
can use my product clip and then it can
also be used to create 3d plots 3d plots
are very really really complicated and
for a beginner or even for an
intermediate programmer it's very
difficult for us to create 3d plots so
matplotlib exposes functionalities for
us to be able to create 3d plots based
on the data that we have and then comes
tens of loop tensorflow again is an
open-source buy the package it has been
developed by Google it's extensively
used in building training and testing
neural network so if you've ever come
across
neural networks multi-layer perceptrons
these kinds of terminologies tensorflow
is one of the libraries one of the most
popular and famous celebrities that
there are being used to build these
neural networks that can do really
complicated tasks and make it make and
allow you to make a model out of those
let's take a look at some of the
features that have mesh tensorflow so
popular so transom flow makes it really
easy
for us to create in train and urine
Network if-elsif law was not there then
we would have to take care of a lot of
low-level details lot of low-level
mathematical details our propagation
function and error for calculation and
so on and so forth
what tensorflow takes care of it for us
it also allows us to define the topology
of our layered human network how you lay
out your multi-layered perceptron where
how many layers are there how many input
layers how many output layers what each
layer is doing all of that can be really
important for us to understand how
things are working and that could make
it or break the difference between
several models and several accuracies of
a model so if you're trying to build a
neural network then the topology matters
a lot and in that case tensorflow helps
you out quite a bit and also it can be
used to train models on massive datasets
tensorflow can be run on Google cloud
platform and many other cloud platforms
as well for your datasets to work and
it's built with the efficiency in mind
so if you're trying to build a model of
multi-layered neural network model using
massive data set then tensorflow could
help you out and one of the reasons that
it could be extremely fast is because it
uses it allows you to use something
called TPU TPU is a special kind of
graph special kind of processor it's
called tension processing units such as
CPU and GPU you can use TP users when
they work specifically with tensorflow
and they work really fast and they are
extremely fast much faster than GPUs and
CPUs so that's why they're used machine
learning and machine learning training
so on and so forth now these are some of
the most popular libraries they are very
popular they are being used all across
the world but there are several other
libraries that performs similar tasks or
some tasks that have not been covered
that are not that common but these tasks
can be performed using other libraries
as well let's take a look at some of
them again there are several libraries
in terms of data sense you these are
just a few of them that I mentioned and
you can take a look at others as well so
one of the few libraries that we did not
mention in the previous section was Syfy
so if you're trying to perform some
scientific
computation if you're trying to perform
some really complicated scientific
computation mathematics graphs and so on
and so forth then you can take a look at
sci-fi it complements very well the
numpy library so it also has a lot of
mathematical functions mathematical
formulas and everything is in built so
you just need to import those
functionalities and then you need to use
them Syfy is really great for that
then comes Seaborn seabone you can think
of as an abstraction over matplotlib it
users might not live underneath the hood
but what seabone does really well is
that it allow it gives you a really
simple calls really simple syntax you
can build some complicated and
great-looking visualizations so if you
are trying to build something like a
heat map if you're trying to build
something else that resembles a plot
then using Seaborn can also be really
helpful if you take a look at Seaborn
and if you take a look at my plot link
you'll find that's not much difference
however Seabourn does allow you to make
sure or makes customizing the
visualizations that you are performing
really easy then comes chaos
as is a really important library in
terms of machine learning and your
networks tensorflow uses chaos
underneath the hood many other libraries
users use chaos as well kERA's is used
to define the topology it makes it
really easy for us to create layers of
our neural network and then combine them
together and create the topology that
for tensorflow uses underneath the hood
so if you want to take a look at how to
use barebone chaos and not the tensor
flow abstraction you can just use the
chaos level to the earth well then comes
NLT which stands for natural language
toolkit so if you have ever come with
NLP natural language processing NLT K is
the toolkit or the library that is used
just for that so if you have like
sentiment analysis if you have task that
requires you to take a look at a lot of
text and then find out or extract some
information out of it then what you can
do is you can use natural language
toolkit which is also called NLT Kay
there are other languages as well but in
any case one of the most popular ones
and then comes plotly so similar to see
bon plotly also makes creating graphs
very easy but it creates some the daily
advanced graph so and it allows you to
create some really interactive graphs as
well it uses Chavez
there's a lot of technologies if you are
looking for some other package that
makes creating really complicated grass
daily easy Notley it's just the tool for
you so when it comes to learning new
things such as the libraries that we
have just mentioned a port that always
keeps me going is an investment in
knowledge always pays the best interest
keeping that in mind I'd like to tell
you a bit about platform we have a
community platform where you can ask
questions when you get your questions
answered by your peers or by Pro or by
subject experts you if you have any
questions regarding anything if you're
trying to do something in a library and
you run into an error but it's not
performing the way you want it to
perform what you can do is you can
create a question or a raise in issue in
our community and our advisors and your
peers will take a look at that and help
you the best way possible the growing
community different kinds of
technologies can be you can ask
questions about different kinds of
technologies there just take a look at
that and we also have a blogging
platform we have our Italian blog that
has a lot of content for you to go
through if you want trying to learn
something new chances are there's a lot
of content there you could take a look
at that you can take a look at what are
the things that are being discussed
there and you can probably gain some
knowledge out of that if you're more of
a visual person and not much of a
reading person we have our YouTube
channel which you can browse around and
take a look at the kinds of free content
that we're putting out we are putting
out new content every day and we put out
different kinds of videos that teach you
about different topics ranging from
DevOps data science
machine learning and many other topics
so you can take a look at that as well
and if you have done that but you want
to take it a bit further then we have
our one-stop solution for career growth
our Intel apart kademan it allows you to
enroll in free courses that we provide
these courses can range from several
several topics like the Java complete
cool we have the C and the data
structures complete course and many
other courses we have on ms excel and ms
SQL artificial intelligence devops cloud
computing files and data science tableau
salesforce if you're looking for some
three content and you are looking to
learn and get the basic knowledge
about these kinds of technologies and
you can enroll into any of these courses
you need to sign up and you can just
enroll it any of the courses that you
want to to get a solid foundation and in
case you are looking for advancing your
career in data science we have a data
sense mobsters architect cool you can
take a look at all of the subjects that
are being taught here you will be taught
data size with our Python machine
learning AI big data tab new and this
will also be taught Excel and MongoDB
you can take a look at the course
content you could take a look at the
classes available these are the courses
that are available for you it includes
everything that you might need to learn
to become a data scientist there are a
lot of projects there's a lot of good
content available you can take a look at
the curriculum you can download the
curriculum you can take a look at each
one of these individually as well and
there are a lot of projects for you to
build so that you can have confidence in
your abilities to deal with these
technologies and you should done that
then you will get these certificates
imagine your name here these
certificates are accepted in many
multinational companies like Cisco
cognizant music Matisse's and so on and
so forth and this helps you stand out as
well as many recruiters are looking for
people with certification so that they
know the technology that they want
people to be hired for and that could
help you out a lot we have both advisers
you have if you have any questions you
can ask and you could take a look at the
frequently asked questions and you can
find the questions answer that you're
looking for in case your question is not
mentioned here what you can do is you
can use our YouTube 30 coupon code it
will give you a 30% off this is just for
today and for the YouTube viewers so if
you are looking at this you can take a
look at our courses and if you want to
buy any course right now you can use the
YouTube 30 coupon code which will give
you a flat 30% off and with that in mind
if you have any other questions you can
contact us on the numbers listed on the
screen if you would like to reach out by
a mail you can take a look at the email
address mentioned on screen as well
force advisers are there to help you get
to the best course that helps you
advance your career 24/7 anytime you
want to contact us our course advisors
are available and
thank you so much for going through the
entire presentation with me hopefully
this was helpful and informative
and I'll see you in the next one
