Google is one of the world's leading
software and Technology developers every
year Google introduces new technical
discoveries and advancements that are
amazing and beneficial to people all
around the world because more
individuals are using Cloud the Google
Cloud platform has experienced an
increase in utilization in recent years
a variety of Google cloud services for
Global consumers have been introduced in
response to the high demand of computing
resources so on realizing the popularity
and the need for learning about
Computing resources of gcp I have
brought a new video of Simply learn on
Google Cloud in-depth tutorial 2022 in
this video I'll take you through crucial
GCB services and their indepth
Concepts so without doing any further
Ado let's get
started but before diving deep into the
concepts we will first cover the basics
starting with understanding what is gcp
followed by the gcp tutorial in which we
will explore gcp services
and its
infrastructure then we will have a quick
comparison between JCP AWS and ashure
along with Hon experience with
gcp then we will move on to gcp web
hosting and then we will understand
Google machine learning with proper
demonstration and at last we will look
into the essentials of Google Cloud
platform
fundamentals and how to exactly prepare
for it by the end of this video I can
assure you that all your gcp related
Concepts would have been clear so for
this training with me I have a
experienced gcp specialist together
we'll walk you through the different
crucial gcp Keynotes so let's start with
an exciting video on Google Cloud
in-depth tutorial
2022 before we begin make sure to
subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit
the Bell icon and never miss an update
from Simply
done good morning and good evening
everyone so welcome to this session on
Google Cloud platform my name is AJ and
I'm an instructor with simply learn and
also working as a big data and Cloud
architect for various clients across
globe in this session we learn about
Google Cloud platform wherein we will
learn about what is cloud computing why
Google Cloud platform what is gcp that
is Google Cloud platform Google Cloud
plat platform domains about a use case
that is ferero use case and also a quick
demo on using services from Google Cloud
platform so when we talk about Google
Cloud platform we also need to know what
is cloud computing so cloud computing is
the use of hardware and software
components to deliver a service to a
network users can access these files and
applications and services provided by a
cloud Provider from any device that has
access to Internet in short cloud
computing is a way where cloud provider
provides access to different services
such as resources and when we talk about
resources here we talk about Computing
we talk about memory we talk about
processing power we talk about storage
and we also talk about different
Services which Cloud providers make
available for the users now that allows
us for automatic software integration
backup and restoring data unlimited
storage capacity having a reliable use
of different services and having a cost
efficient solution now we know that
cloud computing models there are
different service models so you have
platform as a service you have
infrastructure as a service and you have
software as a service and these are the
prominent models which are offered by
different Cloud providers such as Google
Cloud such as Google you have Amazon you
have Azure and also some organizations
build their own private clouds using
open source open stack let's focus more
on Google Cloud platform and what it has
to offer and how it is gaining
popularity in the market with different
organizations
which would want to work on a cloud
platform or which would want to work on
an infrastructure which is modernized so
when we talk about cloud computing this
is one of the approach which
organizations can take to
instantaneously benefit from
modernization using different Services
different platforms and also newer
Technologies for their various
requirements such as scal ility or
dynamic businesses before we get into
Google Cloud platform it is also good to
understand where you can find some
useful resources about Google Cloud
platform and here you have a website
which is from your Google Cloud so this
is cloud
academy.com librarygoogle and here you
can create a free account now that would
give you just 7 days trial but that has
lot of videos which talk about your
Google Cloud platform and Essentials and
it has various certification related
videos which you can access and then
after 7 days after you have tried you
can obviously go for a paid account
where you can take detailed learning
from here now this is your training
Library which shows your different Cloud
providers such as Amazon Microsoft
assure gcp and then you have various
other top topics which are specifics to
organization you can obviously look at
the pricing and you can also look at
resources which will give you a good
experience in learning from these videos
you can also create a free account which
I will walk you through later so you can
create a free account on
cloud.google.com now when I say free
account that basically means it allows
you to create an account and every user
who creates an account gets a $300 free
credit which can be used to practice
brush up your skills and also explore
and learn about different Google Cloud
products which are offered by Google now
coming back to our Google Cloud platform
let's understand why Google Cloud
platform so Google Cloud platform is
popular for many reasons now let us see
few of most important reasons why it
stands out
when you talk about pricing pricing is
one of the significant factors that make
Google Cloud Stand Out Among the other
Cloud
providers it offers a monthly pricing
plan which is build according to monthly
usage and when we talk about billing
here the billing can be in hours it can
be in minutes and it can also be in
seconds there are different options when
you talk about your pricing which can be
found from your Google Cloud web page
now pricing could be based on preemptive
machines pricing could be based on
reserved instances or reserved resources
I'll show you the link where you can
find more details on pricing part of it
so Google Cloud really has various
pricing options which help customers in
their different requirements whether
they would go for any of the service
models such as infrastructure as a
service platform as a service or even
software as a service one more
attractive thing about Google Cloud
pricing is that it provides committed
use discounts for example under this
scheme you can purchase a specific
amount of virtual CPU course and memory
for up to 57% Discount off regular
prices if you commit usage for either
one or 3 years now this is just one
option there are various such options
which you can learn about from the
Google Cloud's page and that really
suits different customers for their
different
requirements now when we talk about
speed we don't need to really challenge
this aspect when it comes to Google
services so Google provides its Google
cloud and Google app customer speed up
to 10 tabt because of its faster cable
system there are different kind of
machines which can be used if you're
talking about computation if you're
talking about memory hungry applications
or even storage intensive workloads all
in all speed is one of the defining
characteristics of Google cloud services
the cable has connections over us West
Coast main cities in Japan and even
major hubs in Asia this speed enhances
performances and leads to customer
satisfaction now when we talk about
customers any or every customer would
prefer to have low latency High
throughput Based Services they would
want to use higher speeds to process
their data in as less time as possible
Google provides a low latency Network
infrastructure in fact you can say that
when you are using Google cloud services
you are using the services from the same
infrastructure which Google uses for its
popular services such as Google Google
search or even YouTube which is one of
the second largest repository which can
be accessed for videos now when we talk
about Big Data big data is data which is
very complex has lot of other
characteristics such as your volume you
have velocity you have variety you have
veracity validity volatility virality
and so on so if an organization has is
working on Big Data Google Cloud can be
a better choice because Google has many
Innovative tools for cloud warehousing
for example such as big query and even
realtime data processing tools such as
data flow big query is a data warehouse
that allows massive processing of data
at high speeds basically working on your
structured data Google also has launched
some new machine learning from
artificial intelligence to tools now
there are various other services which
we can which we can use from Google
Cloud platform but let's understand what
is Google Cloud platform and what are
some of the services even the services
which are not listed here can be found
in your console from Google Cloud so
what is Google Cloud platform gcp it is
a set of Cloud Computing Services
provided by Google that runs on the same
infrastructure as I mentioned that
Google uses for its end user products
like YouTube Gmail and even Google
search the various set of services
offered by Google Cloud platform are so
you have Services which are specific to
Computing requirements and again in
Computing you have various different
options available you have machines
which are compute optimized machines
which are memory optimized machines
which are storage optimized and also we
have certain machines such as PRM Tiff
which basically means that you could get
a machine to work on at a far lesser
price than any other machine but when we
talk about preemptive these are the
machines which can be requested on
demand and they can be taken back by
Google at any time you have networking
related Services which can be very
useful when you are setting up your
applications or your Services across
Globe you also have different Services
which are specific to machine learning
and organizations which would be
interested in working on machine
learning or artificial intelligence
would be really interested in using
these Services there are also innovative
solutions to work on big data and Big
Data related Technologies now when we
talk about Google Cloud platform domains
so we can break down these Services into
specifics such as you have compute now
the compute service allows for computing
and hosting the cloud now when you talk
about Computing here there are different
services such as app engine you have
compute engine you have kubernetes you
have Cloud functions and Cloud run when
you talk about storage and database so
the storage and database service allows
application to store media files backups
or other fil like objects now various
Services Under This are as follows you
have cloud storage Cloud SQL Cloud big
table for unstructured data you have
Cloud spanner cloud data store
persistent discs and Cloud memory store
when we talk about networking the
networking service allows us to load
balance traffic across resources now as
I mentioned earlier resources could be
your different resources which you would
be using from a cloud platform such as
your devices your instances memory
optimized or CPU optimized instances or
other resources creating DNS records and
much more so various Services Under This
are VPC that stands for virtual private
Cloud you have Cloud load balancing
Cloud armor Cloud CDN you have Cloud
interconnect DNS and network service TS
when we talk about the big data service
this allows us to process and query big
data in Cloud now various Services under
these are as follows you have big query
cloud cloud data proc Cloud composer
cloud data lab cloud data prep Cloud Pub
sub which is publish and subscribing
system you have cloud data studio now
you also have the developer tools and
developer Tools service includes tools
related to development of an application
now various Services under these are as
follows that is you have Cloud SDK
software development kit you have
deployment manager Cloud Source
repositories and Cloud test lab when we
talk about identity and security which
is one of the primary concerns for any
organization or any user who would be
interested in using a cloud platform
Google Cloud really has taken care of
this so when you talk about identity and
security domain this deals with Security
Services now various Services here are
Cloud identity you have identity and
access management that is cloud am you
have identity aware proxies you have
cloud data loss prevention API security
key enforcement Key Management Service
and many more you also have cloud
services which are related to internet
of things so very much would be used by
organizations who would be working on
iot devices or the data generated by
these devices so various Services here
are Cloud iot Core you have Edge TPU and
Cloud iot also when we talk about Cloud
AI that is artificial intelligence this
comprises of services related to machine
learning and much more so you have Cloud
Auto ml Cloud TPU Cloud machine learning
engine job Discovery dialog workflow
Enterprise natural language Cloud text
to speech and much more if you would be
interested in Services related to API
platform then there are different
Services Under This category or this
domain so you have Maps platform you
have APG API platform
monetization developer portal analytics
that is API analytics APG sense Cloud
endpoints and service infrastructure so
these are some of the listing of
services under each Cloud platform
domain now let's look at Ferrero use
case and let's also understand what was
done here so ferero is one of the famous
chocolate and ranks third among
worldwide chocolate and confectionary
producers it was found in 1946 in Italy
I'm sure you would have seen the ferero
chocolates when you would have gone now
to buy some chocolates so the challenges
here was that ferero as we know is sold
in every supermarket and is known for
its quality once the business grew some
issues arous right and that's what
happens when the business grows you have
issues popping up which could be related
to the volume of data the speed with
which the data is getting generated the
variety of data and also looking at your
platforms which support different
Dynamics applications or your
scalability requirements performance
requirements and so on so it needed data
storage processing and Analysis system
for a wide customer
database there was a huge gap between
the company and the people who bought
its goods because the company relied on
data given sales outlets now that's one
of the challenge ferero wanted to create
a digital ecosystem where there was a
point of contact with its customer
and also a foundation for an Innovative
datadriven marketing strategy what was
the solution here so one of the service
of cloud platforms or Google Cloud
platform is Big query and this was an
answer to fero's challenges since it was
capable of hyper fast and efficient data
analysis as a solution now as I
mentioned big query is a data warehouse
which allows you to store structured
data now this could directly be used as
a service where you could store in any
amount of data and you would not be
paying for storage so there are
different pricing models and for data up
to 1 terabytes you would not be charged
anything and if you would be accessing
the data that is reading the data or
processing the data from bigquery that's
where the pricing model kicks in now
using Google Cloud's big query business
analysts of ferero were able to store
and analyze massive data sets in a very
reliable fast and affordable
manner consumer behavior and sales
pattern data reports were easy to build
and
automate and the analysis also followed
ferero to adopt advertising across
various marketing channels to serve the
customer needs in a better way what was
the result they could divide their
database into realtime actionable
consumer clusters to generate more
accurate user profiles fero was also
able to personalize its marketing
strategies to match the user needs now
Google Cloud platform completely
tailored the website mobile content and
advertising and created a very
costeffective media bu strategy now
these were some Basics on Google Cloud
now as I said you can always find lot of
details about pricing about services and
also all the services are accessible in
your free trial account now let me just
walk you through here so one is you
could always find details on
documentation on each of these services
so if I would click on getting started
you have quick start which basically
shows you short tutorials you have train
train ings and you have also
certifications now if we click on quick
start now that takes me to this page
which shows me quick starts or if you
would want to understand about different
projects if you would want to look into
the documentation of creating a Linux
virtual machine or storing a file and
sharing it deploying a container Docker
container image and so on so you have a
lot of quick starts here you can also
look at Cloud minute
on the same page on the right side you
have docs and once you click on that it
takes you to these links now this shows
you build Solutions which shows you top
use cases best practices all the
solutions it's always good to learn from
these use cases which are available and
here you have different feature products
and all the different Services which
Google Cloud offers now you can click on
featured products and that basically
shows you a list of these products now
here we have all the solutions which you
can look at architecture database
Enterprise level big data and Analysis
gaming related internet of things and so
on now if you go down here it shows you
featured products and that shows you
some of the important products such as
compute engine which is belonging to the
compute domain you have Cloud run you
have anthers which is for migration and
basically cloud
adoption when organizations would want
to move from on premise to cloud-based
Solutions you have Vision AI you have
cloud storage now that basically allows
you to store any kind of data whether
that's an object so this is acting as an
object storage you have cloudsql which
is basically a ready to use service
where you would be using MySQL postr or
any other SQL Server database Services
you have big query which is a data
warehouse which B basically allows you
to store your structured data and then
you have your AI and machine learning
related products so you have automl
Vision AI video AI text to speech speech
to text and so on now you also have
different platform accelerators which
can be used and in any of these cases
for example if I would click on compute
engine which is a featured product from
Google Cloud now that shows you
basically your quick starts using your
Linux machines how to guides which tells
you completely working on a VM instance
or working on storage working on
persistent disks and so on and it shows
you the documentation here now you also
have products and pricing option which
you can see for GCB pricing and you
could straight away go to the pricing
you could be looking at Solutions which
talks about infrastructure modernization
now this is something which
organizations are interested in when
they would want to move from their on
premise solution to your Google Cloud
now here I can say for example I click
on infrastructure modernization you can
always find some case studies what are
the different solutions we have here
right when you talk about Google Cloud
so you can always click on see Solutions
and you can look at VM migration or SCP
Cloud right by Google Cloud what it can
be used for VMware as a service or HBC
that is high performance Computing and
about these Services we will learn in
detail later now I can go back on the
same page where I was clicking on the
services so you have quick starts you
have how to guides you have deep
understanding of different concepts
right and here if I click on all how to
guides so that shows me what are the
different ways in which you can work
with Compu compute engine and working
with different instances although it's
quite exhaustive content but then if you
follow steadily then you can learn a lot
about Google Cloud now here I can just
go back so this is just giving you some
idea on the different products which are
available from Google Cloud looking into
different sections finding right
documentation here right and you can
always look into each one of these in
detail for each product which Google
Cloud
offers now if we scroll down we could
see all the options or all the domains
which we see here right let me just go
back because we got into Solutions now
we have quick starts right and then you
can basically scroll all the way down to
look at Cloud SDK which can be set up on
your Windows machine like I have set it
up on my Windows machine plus when you
use Google cons console you have a GUI
which I'll show you in a couple of
minutes and also a cloud shell where you
can use your command line options to
work with Google Cloud platform you have
Cloud console which is nothing but your
GUI to access your resources now you can
also look at in-depth tutorials pricing
and you have different other options so
let's just click on pricing here and
then we have your PR price list which
basically gives you details of different
Services what are available and what are
the services or what are the prices so
for example if I click on compute engine
right and this shows me the pricing
aspect of compute engine which belongs
to compute domain and here you can see
you have VM instance pricing you have
networking pricing Soul tenant nodes
which are specific to particular
organizations or if organizations would
want to have DED ated notes you have GPU
based pricing right so General
processing units you have dis and image
pricing and you can click on any of the
links and you can see pricing which also
shows you your different kind of machine
types so here you have different kind of
machine types which says N1 N2 n2d E2
you have memory optimized machine types
you have compute optimized you have
premium images and you can basically
look at all the categories you can look
at DIS pricing which involves
your persistent dis pricing for ssds or
sdds what are the kind of images what
are the different network Services right
and you can always look at your machine
types you can choose a particular region
right there is the concept of region and
availability zones here and as per
region you could look at the prices you
can also look at standard prices you
could be looking for what are the free
tier machines if I'm specifically
looking for VM instance pricing I can
click on this one and that takes me to
the VM instance pricing what is the
building module what is the instance up
time what is the resource based pricing
and then you can also look at different
kind of discounts such as sustained use
discounts committed use discounts
discounts for preemptable FM instances
and so on and this is how you can be
looking at pricing for all different
resources and you can choose the
resource which you are interested in
and then look for the pricing
benchmarks reservations if you would
want to use and you would want to
benefit if you would want to look at
what are the quotas and limits and so on
so please explore this link and you can
find lot of information when it comes to
technical options looking at different
Google Cloud products which we briefly
discussed when it comes to domains and
what each product can be used for you
can always come back to the main page
where I was showing you different
Services we went into pricing straight
away right now you can always come back
to this page on your cloud.google.com
and then you have your
Solutions which talks about different
products right and you can click on
these or you can look into technical
documentation so this talks about your
different featured Solutions
infrastructure Solutions you have data
center migration related and so on so I
could be talking more and more about
Google Cloud platform platform it's a
ocean it's a huge chunk of different
services for different organizational
requirements so look into this link and
also what you can do is create a account
on Gmail I mean you could create a free
account or you could go to
cloud.google.com
and then you could create a free account
like I have created here and I can just
click on Console now that's my GUI or
Google Cloud console
which basically allows me to work with
Google Cloud now there are a lot of
options here by default when you create
an account now in my case on the top it
says it's a free trial account I have
$300 credit and out of that $251 is left
and 237 days out of a year are left for
my account now here I can basically see
the project right and by default we can
create an project or by default there is
a project existing for any user so when
you log in it creates a particular
project and you could create a new
project and project would be to dedicate
your different services or different
resources per different project so this
is your dashboard which basically shows
you your project which shows you a
project number and a project ID which is
always unique now you can click on this
and this if you would want you can hide
this information you can also look into
the documentation part of of it then it
shows you the different services or a
graphical information of services which
you might have used in past so you have
compute engine which shows you how much
percentage of CPU was used you can
always go to compute engine as a service
you can look at your Google Cloud
platform status and look at the Google
Cloud status now this is billing now
since this shows me the billing period
for April month and I can always look at
detailed charges I can look at reporting
I can look at different apis which
Google offers and you for your different
kind of work you can always go to the
API overview or the API link and enable
or disable any API now once you enable
or disable any API then you can use that
so you have news section you have
documentation and you have getting
started guides which tells you how to
work or enable different apis if you
would want to deploy a pre-build
solution at Dynamic logging monitoring
errors deploying a Hello World app and
so on now this is your dashboard I can
click on activity and that would show me
what kind of activity I would have done
in my cloud platform I can always choose
the kind of activities by saying
activity type I can choose the resources
now it shows me that I created some VM
instances I deleted them I up updated
some metadata I basically worked on
instances I changed some firewall rules
here I have then also worked on some
other services or apis so I created some
buckets which is for object storage and
again I have been working with some
instances and creating some firewall
rules here I have granted some
permissions I am setting up a policy
right so this activity gives me a
history of what things I have done over
the past couple of months while working
on Google Cloud platform now on the top
left corner you have the hamburger menu
which you can click on this so that's
your navigation menu and when you click
on this this shows you home it takes you
to the marketplace it specifically takes
you to billing you can always look at
apis and services so here in API
Services I can pretty much go to a
dashboard and I can see report on the
traffic or errors or latency and the
kind of apis which are available so you
have compute engine API you have big
query API big query data transfer API
big query storage cloud data proc so
these are some of the apis or Services
I've used in past might be I was
evaluating a product might be I was
using a particular product so you have
whenever you would want to use a
particular service from Google Cloud
platform you would be en enabling these
apis so here we see some apis for data
proc you have logging monitoring you
have resource manager API you have
cloudsql which allows you to directly
use MySQL or postgress you have cloud
storage right and so many apis so if I
would want to enable a particular API
which is not right now required but then
it's good to know you can always click
on this one you can search for an API so
for example if if I would say data proc
right and that shows me the cloud data
proc API which manages Hadoop based
clusters and jobs on Google Cloud
platform so I can spin up a Hadoop
cluster and I can start running some
jobs on a Hadoop cluster on demand and
as I'm done with it I can just get rid
of it so this is an API which I would
have to enable and then for every
particular service you also have an
admin API which you would enable now
going back so com out from this API
Library I got into API and services now
there is you can look into the library
you can look at credentials and you can
also look at different time intervals
for which you can see the usage of your
different apis now going back to the
menu you have support wherein you can
always reach out to the Google support
team if you are using a paid version
even with free trial you can try to
reach out and you will find someone want
to help but it is always good when you
have a billing cycle reaching out the
customer care you have identity access
management in admin and this is required
when you're working with different apis
or Services when you would want to have
relevant access you have getting started
you have security related options you
have anthos which is mainly for
migration now here you can look at your
different domains such as which we
discussed so you have compute and in
compute you you have different services
so you have app engine you have compute
engine kubernetes you have Cloud
functions and Cloud run you can look
into the storage aspect which shows you
big table which is usually and mainly
for your unstructured data big table
which is something which gave rise to
popular nosql databases like hbas and
cassendra you have data store which can
be used you have fire store file store
storage which can be used to put in data
of any kinds you have SQL for structured
data you have spanner as a service you
have memory store and you have data
transfer now when it comes to the
networking domain you have all these
services such as VPC virtual private
network network related services for
your load balancing for using a
cloud-based DNS or Cloud defined Network
you have hybrid connectivity network
service tis security and intelligence
then you have have other options for
your operations which can be used and
here you have different other tools
which can be used such as Cloud build
you have Cloud tasks container registry
deployment manager and many more big
data specific you have the services here
so you have data proc which can be used
to spin up your clusters you have
publish subscribe messaging system such
as now cka which you might have heard of
originates its idea from here so Pub sub
you have data flow you have iot core big
query which is a data warehouse package
or data warehousing solution from Google
Cloud now then you have your artificial
intelligence related services and other
Google Solutions so you can always find
a huge list of services or you can say
at high level Solutions offered by
Google cloud and we can use these to
basically test some of the solutions use
them and work on them so I'll give you a
quick demo on different Services which
can be used here from your Google Cloud
platform now this is your Google Cloud
platform and this is your console now
this also gives you a cloud shell which
can be activated so that you can work
from command line and you can always
find lot of documentation on that so you
can also set up your Cloud shell that is
SDK on your Windows machine and if you
have set it up then basically you could
be doing something like gcloud right if
the cloud has been set up so in my case
I had set up the cloud SDK and basically
I can get into that by looking at what
path I have set up so Cloud SDK and then
I can be using it from my Windows
machine as per my comfort I can also
activate the cloud shell here which will
basically open up a terminal and at any
point of time you can open up this one
Cloud shell in a different window it is
preparing the cloud shell where it will
by default set up your project it will
set up the meta data and now I am logged
into my Google Cloud account from
command line and here I can basically
use gcloud right and that basically
shows you the different options which
are available which you can be using so
if you would want to use a particular
service you can also try giving a help
and that shows you how do you manage
your Google Cloud platform right so you
have different options for billing to
work with your different services and
basically you could be working on Google
Cloud using this Cloud shell from your
command line usually for people who are
learning Google cloud in the beginning
it is always good to go for console and
use your different services from here in
an easier way but as I said you can
always use the command line for example
if I would just go ahead and type
gcloud create
instances and that will directly take me
to the cloud console documentation which
shows you different options which you
can use to work with instances so I
could do a g-cloud compute instances
create and then I can give my instance
name and so on and I'll show you some
examples on that so you can be using
your Cloud console right that is your
Cloud shell and you can straight away
start working from command line however
I would suggest using console in the
beginning and when you are well
experienced then you can start using
Cloud shell to do things from command
line and when you are fully experienced
you can always switch and certain things
are usually useful or easier when done
from command line and some are easier
when you do it from the console and you
can use any one of these options now we
can go to Google Cloud console now as of
now I can close this one I still have my
cloud shell open if I would want to look
into it I can click on this one and I
can straight away go to compute engine
where I would want to work on creating
some instances on Google Cloud platform
using the compute engine service and
then basically connecting to those
instances and basically trying out some
basic things so you can click on VM
instances and then once this comes up I
can always create some instances now if
you see here I have some in instances
already created right and I can continue
working on those I can create new
instances I can use different options
while creating instances and I'll show
you that in a demo in quick seconds so
let's have a quick demo on setting up
gcp instances now before that let's have
a quick recap so when you talk about
instance or a virtual machine it is
hosted on Google's infrastructure right
and you can create your Google Cloud
instance using this Google Cloud console
that is by clicking on this and then
going to computer engine and clicking on
VM instances now you can also do that
from Google Cloud command line tool that
is cloud shell and you can be doing that
using compute engine API so compute
engine instances can run the public
images for Linux or Windows servers that
Google provides you also have option of
creating or using custom images that you
can create an import from your existing
systems you can deploy Docker containers
which are automatically launched on
instance running containers optimized OS
now when you talk about instances and
projects always remember that in each
instance belongs to a Google Cloud
console project and a project can have
one or more instances when you talk
about instances and storage options each
instance has a small boot persistent dis
which I will show you in further screens
that contains the OS you can add more
storage space if needed and when you
talk about instances and network a
project can have up to five VPC networks
so VPC network is virtual private
networks wherein you can virtual private
Cloud networks where you can have your
resources within your own subnet and
each instance belongs to one VPC Network
now instances in same network can
communicate with each other through
local area network protocol an instance
uses internet to communicate within any
machine so that could be virtual
physical or outside its own network when
you talk about instances and containers
you should remember that compute engine
instances support a declarative method
for launching your applic ation using
containers now you can create a VM
instance or a VM instance template you
can provide a Docker image and launch
the configuration so there are different
ways in which you can create these
instances and once you create these
instances you can say for example you're
creating a Linux instance you can
associate SSH keys with your Google
account or your G Suite account and then
manage your admin non-admin access to
the in instance using IM roles if you
connect to your instance using gcloud or
SSH from console which we will see later
compute engine can generate SSH keys for
you and apply that to your Google cloud
or G Suite account now what we can do is
we can see how we can create your Google
Cloud instances from your console or
from the command line let's have a look
in creating instances using gcp console
now that we have learned on some basics
of Google Cloud platform what are the
different Services what are different
domains basically looking at your Google
Cloud console or even Cloud Shell let's
go ahead and create some VM instances
now that's from your compute engine
service and let's try connecting to
these instances and see how this works
let's also see what are the different
options which are available when you
would want to create create the virtual
machine instances here so when you click
on your drop- down from the top left and
choose compute engine so it brings you
to this page so I can show that again so
you can click on compute engine click on
VM instances and that basically brings
you to this page now here it tells you
compute engine lets you use Virtual
machines that run on Google's
infrastructure so we can create micro
VMS or large instances running different
distributions of L Linux or Windows
using standard images that is public
images and you can also have your own
image so let's create AVM instance by
clicking on create now that's basically
helping me to create an instance here so
it shows me the instance name I can give
it something so let me say C1 now I can
add labels so what is label it basically
allows you to organize your project add
arbitrary labels as key value pairs to
your resource so this so this is
basically categorizing your labels and
projects if you have multiple projects
now remember if you have your Cloud
console and if you have created your
free trial account it will allow you to
do these things if not you may have to
go back to the billing section and see
if the billing is enabled which also
means that when you are creating your
Google Cloud account it will ask you to
ke your credit card details but they do
not charge anything or they might charge
might be $1 or one rupee depending on
your location and that's also refunded
but that's just to verify your card now
once I've given the name I can choose a
region so I would basically choose
Europe since I'm in Europe I would be
clicking on Europe West 3 and here I can
choose an availability Zone availability
zone is basically to make your services
or instances or any other resources
highly available so you can choose one
of the availability zones now I would
choose save as 3 now this one we can
scroll down and here it says machine
configurations you have general purpose
machines you have memory optimized
machines which is M1 series and you can
always go back to the Google Cloud page
and see what a particular kind of
machine specializes in so I would click
on general purpose and in general
purpose you have different categories so
you have N1 which is powered by Intel
Skylake CPU platform or you have E2
which is CPU platform selected selection
based on availability so let's have N1
selected now this one shows me the
machine type and if you are using your
free tier account then you can start
with correcting a micro machine which is
one virtual CPU core you can go for a G1
small which is one virtual CPU core and
1.7 GB Ram you can even go up to a
high-end machine and then you can
basically see if you're using a free
account count how many of these machines
you can use if I would be selecting
eight virtual CPU CES and 32 gab of
memory then it would allow me to create
at least two instances by this
configuration we will use N1 standard
which is one virtual CPU core 3.75 GB
memory now then we can also deploy a
container image to this VM instance if
you would be interested in deploying a
container image let's not get into that
right now here it shows shows you the
boot dis and it shows you dbn gnu 9
Linux 9 what I would do is I can go for
this distribution or I can choose a
Linux distribution of my choice so here
you have public images you have custom
images you also have snapshots if you
have created backup of your previous
images here I can choose for example
Ubuntu and then I can choose a
particular version so let's go for to
18.04 you can go for the latest one also
18.04 would be good enough and here it
tells me what is the boot dis so you
have ssds or you have standard
persistent discs now ssds are little
expensive in comparison to your standard
persistent discs or your sdds but then
ssds are faster so as of now we can
choose standard persistent disk as it is
and we can let the gigabyte be 10 now
depending on your requirement you can
increase this you can even add diss
later that's not a problem click on
select now here I have access Scopes so
here I will say allow default access you
can also set access for each API or you
can give full access to all Cloud apis
so that based on your requirement you
can anytime change later also we will
also say allow sttp traffic and we can
also choose allow https traffic that
basically allows me to access access
this machine or Services which are HTTP
based accessible from this machine now I
can just click on create however it
would be good to basically enable
connectivity to this machine now we can
do that in different ways one is when
you bring up your machine it will have
an SSH access which you can log in from
the cloud platform here itself or what
you can do is you can create a private
and a public key using some softwares
like puty or puty gen so for example if
you do not have that on your machine you
can download you can just type in
download puty that takes you to the
p.org page and here you can click on
download puty and scroll down which
shows you for your 64-bit machine which
I have in my case you can download
putty.exe which is basically your SSH
intet client to connect to your machines
you can also use puty gen which will be
allowing you to create a private and a
public key which I have done in my case
let me show you how so what you can do
is you can go to puty gen to begin with
and here you can click on generate now
then to have this key generated just
move your cursor on the top here in the
empty space and that creates your key
you can give it a name so for example
let's give a username I would give hdu
now I can give a password for this one
so let me give a simple password
and what I can also do is I can copy
this public key from here and for my
later usage I can just keep it in my
notepad file which I can use later and
I'll show you when so now we can save
this private key and this will basically
allow me to save my private key I can
choose desktop and I can give it a name
so let's say new key new key and that
will be getting saved in a DOT PPK file
so let's save it and that's done so we
also have our public key and we have
saved our private key now we know that
when you would want to connect using SSH
you need your private keys to the client
and public key also has to be existing
so let's take this public key so let's
do a contr a I'm going to copy this and
I'm going to come back to my Google
Cloud console and here you can click on
security so you can click on the
security tab here here scroll down and
just give your a public key once you
give that it resolves and shows you the
name and this is good enough so that I
can use my SSH client to connect to this
machine I can click on Create and this
will basically create my VM instance it
will take some time and then your
instance will have an internal IP which
will show up here external IP and it
will also show you options to connect to
these machines so this is my internal IP
this is my external IP which I can use
to connect from a client I can easily
connect from the option here which says
SSH and I can say open in a browser
window I can even open this in a custom
Port I can look at the g-cloud command
which you can give from cloud shell or
you can use another SSH so let's first
do a open in browser window and let's
see if this connects so we can easily
connect to our instance the u 2 18
instance which I just set up here easily
in couple of seconds now this is trying
to establish a connection using your SSH
keys and when you do that it also
basically brings up this web browser so
I'm already connected it shows my user
name which is my cloud account username
and I have been connected to this
machine here using SSH it did not ask me
for a new password and basically now I
can just check what do I have in my
Linux file system right and I can
anytime log in as root by doing a Pudo
Su for example let's try installing a
package and I can say apt get install
whm or apt get install WG get or apt get
install open SSH and all these packages
are already existing so not an issue now
I can start using this instance I can
just look at the disk what is available
okay now we gave around 10 GB out of
which we see 8.3 GB here for the dev SDA
1 and then 1.8 GB available and you can
continue using this machine this was the
easiest way of connecting to a VM
instance using
SSH now what we can also do is I can
just leave this and I will now try to
connect using an external SSH client
right and here you can copy the public
IP so when you want to connect to an
instance you will have to get the public
IP also remember that if you select and
stop this machine which will stop your
billing counter and if you start it
again the internal IP will remain same
but the external IP is the one which
will change I can obviously select this
machine anytime and I can do a cleanup
and I can delete it I can do a start of
the machine if it is stopped and I can
even import the virtual machine to be
used later so there are different
options which you can always use so this
is my instance and if you would want to
look at the details click on this one C1
and that should basically allow you to
look at the details so it shows you what
is the instance ID what is the machine
type is it reservation specific what is
the CPU platform what's the zone and all
the other details at any point of time
if you would want to edit you can always
click on edit and you can change the
details as you need now you can also
look at the equivalent rest command to
basically use the rest API to connect to
this instance for now I have copied the
public IP and I would want to connect it
using puty so let's go in here and let's
give it the host name so I can give
Ubuntu I can give my IP address so
that's in my session now I will click on
SSH I would go into authentication I'll
click on browse and this is where I need
to choose the p PK file so this is the
one which we created new key let's
select this and then I can come back to
session I can even save this and I can
call it as my instance one let's save it
and you can create any number of
instances so you see I have created
different instances here for my Google
cloud or Amazon related instances and I
can click on open it says the servers
host key is not casted in the registry
that's fine just click on yes and
basically it says no authentication
method supported now this could be
because we have not enabled your SSH
access so let's look at that so now
let's see if we were trying to connect
using puty what was the issue here so if
I go back to my puty select my instance
load it it says Port 22 I'm giving the
username which is window or sorry that's
the wrong user user name we gave and
that might be the reason we had set up
the user as s duu so let's save this
again and now let's try connecting to
this one and it asks for my password and
you are able to connect this right now
if there was any other issue related to
network connectivity then we could look
at the rules the inbound and outbound
rules which allow us to look into the
machine now we are connected to our
machine here using hdu user I can log in
as root and I can continue working so
not only from the SSH within the cloud
console but you can use an external SSH
client and connect to your machine so
this is your open to machine and we can
basically look at the space and that
basically confirms we are connecting to
the same machine which shows 8.3 GB here
and 1.8 GB here which we were seeing
from the ssh in the browser now let's
close this and let's go back to our
instance page now now here you can
always look at the network details and
this will show you your different kind
of rules that is ingress or egress rules
which basically allows to connect to
this machine from an external network or
for this machine to connect to an
external network so here we have
different firewall rules which shows
default allow HTTP that's your Ingress
Rule and it tells you apply to all it
shows me what are the IP ranges where I
can specifically give the IP of my my
machine it shows the protocols it shows
what are the different ports which you
have used for these services for example
RDP or SSH which shows 22 you have icmp
HTTP and https now anytime if you would
want to make a change to these rules
that can be done by going into your
network details and say for example you
would want to work on firewall rules so
we have these firewall rules here you
can click on this one so right now we
are looking into the network domain and
we are looking into VPC Network right
and this shows me what are the different
rules we have now if I would want to
create a different firewall rule for a
different protocol I can always click on
create firewall rule I can give it a
name okay I can say what if you would
want to turn all the firewall logs you
can basically say what is the kind of
traffic so Ingress applies to incoming
traffic and egress applies to outgoing
traffic and you can then basically
choose what are the IP ranges from where
you want that connection to be coming in
or to going out you can choose a
particular protocol you can give a
protocol here with comma separated
values and you can create a firewall
rule so this might be required depending
on the services which you are running
wherein you might want to enable your
access to your machine from an external
service or to an external service so you
can always go to network details from
here you can then go into firewall rules
create a firewall rule apply that to
your instance and restart your instance
so as of now we don't need to create any
network details here because my Ingress
or egress rules are already available
right now I can basically then have my
instance stopped and removed so I can
just do a stop
or since this is running the ideal wave
would be to do a stop I could also do a
reset now what does reset do reset does
not basically delete the machine what it
does is it does a cleanup of the machine
and it brings it to the initial state so
sometimes we might have installed
certain things on our machine we would
want to clean them up and at that time
reset can be useful I can basically
click on delete right and I can select
this and I can do a cleanup and and this
is good always when you are using a free
trial account try to use different
Services play around with them and then
you can clean up so that you do not
waste your free billing credit right and
you can use it for Meaningful stuff now
I have clicked on delete and within few
seconds my instance which I had created
will be deleted also to remember is if
you are creating multiple instances then
you can connect from one machine to
other machine using SSH by using the
private file so for that we can learn in
detail later so this is just a simple
example of using your compute engine
creating your instances connecting to it
from an internal SSH or from an external
SSH client such as puty where you have
already created your private and public
Keys now I can click on the browser here
and then I can basically come out and I
can basically be looking into any
particular service so we just looked
into compute engine right you have
different other options you have
instance groups you have instance
templates for example let's click on
instance templates here and that
basically shows you that you don't have
any instance template and this basically
facilitates say for example you are
working as a admin and you would want to
create an instance template so that
using that you can describe a VM
instance and then you can basically use
this template to create different
instances you can go for soul tenant
noes you can look for machine images you
can also look at your discs you can
create a snapshots and you can look at
different options here now let's come
back here and let's click on home and
that should take you back to your
homepage which basically shows you if a
particular API which you have used
recently which shows me in the graph
here so I can go to the api's overview
right and that basically shows me if
there were any errors if I was using the
compute engine API to basically create a
VM instance and that's why we were
seeing some spike in the graph so this
is a quick demo of using your compute
engine service provided by Google Cloud
wherein you can create VM instances and
use those VM instances for your
application installation for any other
purpose now that we have seen how you
use your Cloud console to create an
instance and also clean it up let's also
understand how you can do using your
command line options and let's see what
it takes or what are the different
commands which you can use to create
your
instances now you can always when when
you're creating an instance you can use
compute engine which provis resources to
start the instance so instance basically
has different states
which we can see when we are creating
the instance so you basically start the
instance instance moves into staging
that is prepared for your first boot
finally it boots up and then it moves
into running so when you look at
instance states which we will create
instance and see it will basically have
different states such as provisioning
where resources are being allocated for
instance but instance is not yet running
then it goes into state paging where
resources have been acquired and
instance is being prepared for your
first boot then instance is booting up
and running and if you are stopping an
instance it goes into being stop status
and it would be moved to the terminated
option you can also do a repairing of
instance and finally you can terminate
your instance or clean it up by stopping
and then deleting it now when you say
stopping and resetting an instance you
can stop the instance as I showed
earlier if you no longer need it but if
you need for future use you can just use
the reset option which will basically
wipe the contents of instance or any
application State and then finally you
can stop it and have it terminated now
when you would want to do that using
your Cloud console uh we have seen the
options now let's also see from the
command line tool how you can do it so
here I I have the cloud shell which I
brought up from here and I basically
opened it in a new window so command
line tool enables you to easily manage
your compute engine resources in a
friendlier format than using your
compute engine API now g-cloud which is
part of cloud SDK is the main command
here and then you can always
autocomplete the different options here
so when you would want to create or work
on gcloud you can just type in gcloud
here and then for example I could just
say help to see different options of
g-cloud which will show me different
options which you can use here now we
would be interested in compute instances
so I could also do a
gcloud
compute compute instances and then I can
basically say create and then I can do a
help now that should show me different
options options which work with gcloud
compute instances create command which
is expecting an instance name so your
Google Cloud SDK which we can set up on
our Windows machine or even on your
Linux machine is set of tools that helps
you to manage resources and applications
hosted on your gcp that is your Google
Cloud platform now here you have options
such as g-cloud which I'm showing you
right now you have Gs util and and then
you have BQ so that also can be used so
you can set up a Google Cloud compute if
using gcloud now what we can do is if we
are setting up our SDK on our Windows
machine then we would have to do a
gcloud in it which basically initializes
your configurations for
gcloud now here we are using a cloud
shell which was started from the console
and we don't have to basically give your
g-cloud init command because it's
already initialized now you can always
look at your default Zone you can look
at your region what is being used all
those things are coming from the
metadata which is being used so for
example I could be looking at the
metadata for my particular project by
just doing a
gcloud and then I can say Compu
and I would be interested in Project
info so I can just do a project minus
info and then I can do a describe and
then I need my project ID so I can say
minus minus project and I can get my
project ID from here so you can click on
this one and that's my project ID so I
can click on this one and here I can
just do a right click and if it does not
paste then you can do a control V and
then I can try to look at my project
info so this basically will give me the
metadata which is by default set and we
can always look at what are the regions
or what is the Zone which has been set
so if it has been set so I'm looking at
my details it is showing me my SSH keys
and then it can be using your default
region and your default available zones
it also shows my username and other
details so this is basically to look at
the metadata which is available now at
any point of time I can basically say
add metadata I can basically choose
metadata option and I can say my default
region should be Europe which I was
choosing earlier so I can just bring up
this command again and what I can do is
I can say here where I have gcloud
compute project info where I did a
describe earlier now what I can also do
is I can just say add
metadata and then I can specify what is
the metadata I would be interested in
adding I can then say Google
compute
default region and then I can basically
give a region for example Europe and
then I can say West
3 and if you are not well experienced
you can always do it from console or you
can be doing it from here so I'm giving
Google Cloud compute Google compute
default region then I can also give a
Google compute default
Zone and then I can pass in a value for
default zone so I can say Europe West 3
and then basically I can give an
availability zone so if it is basically
giving me some error where I'm trying to
pass in these values so I can just give
it this way and then it basically says
that if you can look into particular
help to see what is the command which
you would have to do now I can basically
do a
gcloud init here initial configuration
and this basically says that it is
initializing my default configuration it
says reinitialize this configuration
from cloud shell you want to create a
new configuration so if if I had updated
my metadata then basically I could just
do a cloud in it and I could be
reinitializing my default configuration
or properties which I have passed in so
as of now I will not activate or change
the default region let's go for a simple
way in which you can create your compute
engine so for example I'll just say one
and it is reinitializing it asks me what
is the username and let's select that it
says what is the project and let's
select that and do you want to configure
a default compute region and zone right
and I will just say Yes And basically
then it shows me different options which
we have here so there are too many
options here and then here we were
interested in Europe West 3 so let's
choose 21 right and then that basically
Al allows me to choose my region and my
zone so it also gives you some
specifications so it says your project
default compute Zone has been set to
Europe West 3A you can change it by
running g-cloud config set and you can
give a compute zone right so I can
always give these commands I can get
help information here so I can just say
gcloud config set and I can be
specifying the computer zone so I can
say compute SL Zone and I can give a
Zone I can say compute SL region and I
can give a region name if I would want
to do it or the easier ways like what I
did right now so you can basically do a
command gcloud in it and then basically
it allows you to change your
configuration or set default things here
you can all the times you can say gcloud
config unset to basically remove a
computer
zone or a compute region now there are
different ways so if you were working on
a Linux machine you could always use an
export command something like this so
you could do export compute sorry Cloud
SDK and then you can say
computor Zone and then give your Zone
name or compute _ region and give you
your region or you could add it in your
bash RC file right now that is when you
have your Cloud SDK set up on your Linux
machine or on Windows machine and you
would want to specifically set a Zone
and a region for all your compute
related resources so we don't need to do
that the default settings are already
given here right and what we can do is
we can start by quickly looking into
gcloud compute instances options so I
can say g-cloud compute instances this
and then I can just do a list at any
point of time if you would need help you
can just do a g-cloud compute and then
say minus minus help or I could just do
a g-cloud compute and that shows me
different options which I have here from
which I use instances I can always type
instances and again hit enter and it
shows me different options what you
would want to do so I can initially just
type list which should show me what are
the list or what are the instances
available and as of now we don't have
any instances I can always do a list and
then I can specify minus minus format
and then try to get the information in a
Json format or EML or minus minus format
text so you can always do a list you can
do a filter so there are different
options with your list and you can you
can try doing a help here and that
basically shows you what are the options
so for example if I do a help and it
shows me with list what are the things
you can do so you can give a name you
can give a regular expression you can
say in particular Zone you can use a
minus filter so there are different
commands which are available and you can
always find all those options here as I
showed you earlier so now what we would
be interested in is basically going for
your compute instances I can always do a
SSH and I can create an instance I can
add and remove metadata right for my
instances by giving a particular Zone by
giving a particular region and if you
would want to do that now here what we
can do is we can basically create an
instance by just giving a name to that
particular instance and we can then go
back to our console and see what has it
done so I can say here create so that's
an option let's see what does the create
do so it says okay you are giving a
create option but you would have to give
a name so let's say let's call it E1 and
that will be the name of my instance and
this one is an easy command from your
Cloud shell which basically creates an
instance you see the Zone which has been
set it is a standard machine type it is
not preemptable it has an internal IP
and it has an external IP now I have
created an instance and here I can just
go back and then I can just do a Refresh
on this page and that already shows me
the instance which I have created and
then you can use the same method to
connect to it using an SSH so I have an
instance created from my cloud shell and
what I can do is I can basically look
into instances and see what are the
different options with instance so if we
did a create right you have an option
delete we did a create you have an
option delete you can be then deleting
the instance from the command line or
you can use other options so you can do
a list you can do a stop you can start
so I can basically do a stop and let's
say even let's go ahead and do a stop
commands are pretty easy here to
remember or you can always use the help
option and now I'm trying to stop the
instance and then basically I can go
ahead and delete it so this is a simple
way where I created a instance from the
command line or from the console which I
showed earlier and similarly you can be
working with other options so now I've
created stop the instance let's do a
listing to see if my instance shows up
it shows up right and it says the status
is terminated so you have stopped it
it's in the terminated status and now
what I can do is I can go ahead and
delete
it so it says this will be lost are you
sure you would want to continue just say
yes and that should take care of
deleting your instance so this is a
quick demo on creating your instance we
have already seen how you can connect to
these instances using SSH now that we
have created instances let's also see
how to use Google Cloud's storage
service which can be used to load data
or upload data so for this we will have
to look into your Google cloud storage
options and here you can look in cloud
storage so let's go back here on the top
which shows me different Services which
we have here and let's look into storage
so this one shows me your storage option
now you can click on browser and that
basically shows me your storage browser
which shows me on the top you have
options for creating a bucket now Google
Cloud Storage allows you to store any
kind of data here the easiest and the
simplest way would be by using Cloud
console although you can again use cloud
shell and in that you can use your GS
util command and GS util basically has
different options where you can be using
say for example I would want to work on
buckets so I can be using MB and then I
can use my command line option to create
buckets I can put in data there I can
browse it and I can access the data from
command line so let's create a bucket
here let's click on this let's give it a
name so let's say my data important
that's the name now I can click on
continue straight away I can look into
all of these options if I'm interested
in so you can basically be looking at
your monthly cost estimate in the
beginning now I can click on continue or
you can say choose where to store your
data and this one shows you different
options so you have region
specific so let's also give the bucket
name with all lowercase that's what is
required yeah so coming back to the
location type you can choose multi-
region which basically allows High
availability so your bucket or your
storage option will be accessible across
regions you can also give dual region
and high availability and low latency
across two regions I can also say region
specific so for our use case we can just
give region specific which can keep our
cost low but in business use cases you
would be going for multi- region now
here you have location and I would again
go for say Europe Europe and let's
choose Europe west3 Frankfurt it is
always a good practice that when you
create your instances when you create
your storage or you use different
Services try to have a geographical
region Chosen and then you would try to
put things or your services within the
particular region within a particular
Zone unless you would want to make it
accessible and available across regions
now I can then choose a default storage
class so when you said default storage
class there are different storage class
and each one is for a different use case
so you have standard which is best for
short-term storage and frequently
accessed data you have near line so this
is basically best for backups and data
access less than once a month you can
also have cold line so these are
basically like your cold storage or
freezing storage which you might have
heard generically as terms so you can
choose one of these storage classes
depending on what will be the use case
for this particular storage bucket so
let it be standard now how to control
access to objects so you can basically
say specify access to individual objects
by using object level permissions now
you can give permissions to the bucket
you can just say uniform access to all
objects in the bucket by using only
Bucket Level permissions so you can
choose that you can also go into advaned
settings and here you can see different
ways in which you can have configuration
set up now you can also have a retention
policy to specify the minimum duration
where that this buckets object must be
protected from deletion and you can set
a retention policy we will not get into
all that we will just first try creating
a bucket so just click on Create and
that should create your bucket wherein I
have my bucket now I can click on
overview to see the details what is the
region which region it belongs what is
the storage class anytime you can always
click on edit bucket and make some
changes here you can look at the
permissions so bucket users F Grand
access allowing you to specify access to
individual objects and then you can
basically look at who has access to this
so in my case editors of the project
they basically are the bucket owners
owners of project viewers of the project
right and you can basically choose what
kind of access you need so for this you
can always go into cloud storage and
then you can decide what kind of access
you would want to give whether that's a
storage admin it's an object admin
object Creator object viewer and so on
you can always look at storage Legacy
and for any other services depending on
what apis you have enabled right you can
always control your permissions so right
now it is storage Legacy bucket reader
and that's fine and this one is bucket
owner and then might be I was using some
other services like data proc which uses
cloud storage and that's why I've given
data proc service agent also so these
are some of the members you can remove
you can view by specific members you can
view by roles so what are the different
roles which have access to this so it
says storage Legacy bucket owner there
are two owners based on this particular
project so these are Auto rolled but
then you can add or remove machines you
can save storage cost by adding a life
cycle rule to delete objects after the
duration of current retention policy so
you can add different policies and you
can basically control your bucket now my
bucket is already created right so I can
go back and then I see my bucket is
already here I can click on this option
and you can anytime edit the bucket
permissions you can edit the labels the
default storage class you can just go
ahead and delete the bucket you can
export it to Cloud pup sub so basically
if you would want to have the content
from this bucket being accessible in a
message queuing system you can go for
Pub sub you can process with Cloud
functions and you can scan with cloud
data loss prevention so there are
different options which are available we
can always select this bucket and delete
it now I can click on the bucket and
that basically shows me different ways
in which I can upload some dat data here
so I can just click on upload files and
here then I can choose some files so for
example I'll go in here I'll go into
data sets and I have different data sets
so for example let's choose this one
which is a CSV file and then I'm just
uploading this to my cloud storage right
it's as simple as this so you can drag
and drop your files or you can just
upload your files and my file is
uploaded here now I can be basically
edit permissions for this one right so
this is in the bucket so anyone who has
access to this bucket can basically
download this file it can they can copy
move or rename this you can export it
and you can look at the permissions of
this file so let's look at edit
permissions and it says for this project
whoever is the owner it has access I've
also given a specific user my Gmail ID
and I've given access so at any point of
time you can just say add item and then
you can start giving different kind of
accesses so let's click on cancel here
now my data is already uploaded into
this particular bucket and that's a
simple usage of your cloud storage now
what we can also do is I can basically
select this and I can delete it I can
also create specific folders and then
basically uh load data into it I can
click on this one I can just do a
download and then I can download it
anywhere on my machine so let's go to
desktop and let's download this file so
we not only uploaded some content in the
bucket but we also downloaded that in a
different location which will be
accessible now what I could have also
done is I could have created a folder
here and I could have specified say for
example immediate immediate
data okay and I'm clicking on this one
so that's my immediate data I can click
on this one and now I can upload my data
specifically to this particular folder
by using the same mechanism you can just
do upload file let's choose air
passengers let's do a open and my file
will be
uploaded so you can always choose what
is the retention expiry date for this
one so as of now there is nothing right
but you can be deleted objects can be
deleted or modified until they reach
their minimum duration you can control
all of that you can basically download
it right you can copy it and you can
move it and rename it so this is a
simple example where I created a
particular bucket right now if for
example you click on this transfer so it
says cloud storage data transfer
products have moved you can now find
storage transfer service on premise data
and transfer Appliance in new data
transfer section right so you can always
go back to cloud storage you can also
look at transfer options which are
mainly when you are using a on premise
service and you would want to upload
data in a Google Cloud right so this is
my bucket here now I can go to Cloud
console and here what I can do is if I
would be interested in working so I can
just say GS util right and then we have
uh for example let's try a help okay and
that basically shows me my GS util now
you can always go to Quick Start GS util
tool and this is one more way wherein
basically you can do it from the command
line so working with buckets so you can
do a GS util MB minus B and then on a
particular Zone if you would be
interested in and then you can say GS
colon and give a name so my awesome
bucket this is how you will create a
bucket which will show you it is
creating a bucket and then basically you
can upload an image or some data from
internet you can just do a WG download
the file and then you can just do a GS
util copy command and that basically
will pick up the file from your Cloud
shell location put it in your bucket
once you have done that you can always
do a copy right so here you are doing a
copy from your local machine that is
your Cloud shell machine to your bucket
and you can do the reverse of that that
is you can do a copy and you can point
your bucket and the file and download it
to your desktops so you can just
download that using the command line and
you can copy the object to a folder in
the bucket so that is by creating a
particular folder and you pushing the
file into a particular bucket you can
list the contents of a bucket using LS
and then give your bucket name so GS
colon so we can just try this one to be
simple and rest you guys can try so here
you can just do a GS util you can do a
LS GS colon SL slash and then I need to
give my bucket name so in my case the
bucket name was my data important so
let's try that so let's say my data
important and I'm trying to list the
bucket and the content it has right and
then you have a folder and then you can
look into the folder and look into the
files so this is a simple quick option
wherein you can use your Cloud shell you
could be using your Google Cloud SDK
from your local machine or you can be
using Cloud console to create a bucket
upload some data on it download the data
see if the data is accessible and that
basically shows you the power of cloud
storage where you can easily upload any
kind of data now what we can also do do
is as you're using a free account or
even a paid account unless and until you
would want to keep the bucket you can
select it and you can just go ahead and
delete it so this will basically ask you
to ke the bucket name and let's say my
data important you need to confirm your
bucket name click on confirm and you
could have done that using GS util and a
delete command from the command line
that is from cloud shell so we have now
created a bucket we have uploaded some
data into it we saw how you can download
it or create a folder and upload some
specific data into it and also you can
do the same thing using GS util tools
wherein you can list your bucket create
your buckets delete it create some
folders into it and do everything from
the command line so this is in simple
way you can use your gcp where either
you can spin up your machines or you can
use cloud storage to basically use a
storage or a easy to use instance on
Google Cloud platform welcome to this
tutorial about Google Cloud platform and
here we will learn about cloud computing
what is cloud computing what is
gcp that is your Google Cloud platform
what are the benefits of Google Cloud
platform and what are its different
Services a little bit about Google's
infrastructure a comparison of different
Cloud providers such as Google offering
gcp that is Google's Cloud platform
Amazon offering Amazon web services and
Microsoft which offers Azure we will
also learn about Domino's Piza use case
and then have a quick demo on using some
of the services on
gcp before we begin let's understand why
cloud computing and it would be always
good to learn about Cloud Compu
based on a use case there are varied use
cases where organizations are adopting
or moving their Solutions or their
infrastructure into cloud or I can
simply say integrating with Cloud now
here is one use case Nina started a
company that relates to website
development the challenges which Nina
was facing were low memory space
whenever required for processing or for
any other kind of application related
work high traffic to website that
crashed it and also less number of
servers now with these challenges she
was then referred to concept of cloud
computing and how that could benefit and
help her in solving her issues most of
her issues were solved when she started
using cloud computing and with cloud
computing she could increase her memory
space as required that is on demand
control the load to the website that is
basically load balancing and handling
more requests on the website or requests
per minute buying servers at a lower
price that is scaling up or down based
on the
requirement when we talk about cloud
computing cloud computing is use of
hardware and software components which a
cloud provider offers as a service which
can be accessed over Network cloud
computing is use of these resources
which could be either dedicated
resources or coming from a pool of
resources which cloud provider offers to
deliver a service to clients users can
access these different Services
applications files from any device which
can basically access
Internet cloud computing allows
automatic software
integration it allows backing up and
restoring of
data it basically offers unlimited
storage memory or computation
capacity it gives access to reliable
sources which usually the cloud provider
themselves are using for their use case
and it is a cost efficient model which
helps organizations to quickly integrate
or basically modernize their
infrastructure cloud computing is
usually used with it or within it space
wherein there are five traits if there
is a requirement of
resources as the business dynamically
changes or grows so for this CL
Computing offers on demand
self-service so users could be using on
demand Computing
resources or memory resources storage
Network and so on provided by cloud
provider and also do a
self-service all this is possible using
a simple interface and users can be
using processing power storage Network
as they need and pay as they go so there
is least or no human intervention
required when it comes to projects which
might need scalable network access cloud
computing offers broad network access
that is accessing resources over Network
across geographical regions or what we
call as availability zones which might
be multiple sites within a particular
geographical region Cloud providers also
have what we call as resource pooling so
this this basically provides a huge pool
of resources which are shared and can be
accessed by customers at a lower cost
now there might be customers which are
interested in not sharing the resources
and would be interested in dedicated
resources and in this case cloud
provider also have so tenant offerings
which help such customers if an IT
business or any other business needs
rapid
elasticity then cloud providers also
have resources which are offered which
are elastic you can get more resources
rapidly as needed and thus you can scale
up and down think of a gaming company
which would be interested in launching a
new game and they would have predicted a
certain number of users which would get
onto the portal playing the game and
what happens if the request per minute
or if the number of users who are
joining in might increase now in this
case organization would want an
underlying solution which handles this
dynamism scales as needed on demand and
once the demand is done scales down this
is possible using a cloud computing
solution cloud computing Solutions also
include measured services that is pay as
you go model for the usage or for the
reservations which a user or
organization would have made for
resource sources offered by cloud
computing so when we talk about cloud
computing one of the question which
always arises is why is this model so
compelling why is this so interesting
for organizations or users who would
want to use one or many services from
cloud computing so first wave of trend
which brought storage cloud computing
was what we call as Colo that is
collocation it shops that have been
using or or managing huge amount of data
from decades basically wanted to
build their infrastructures to handle
their business needs now instead of
building costlier data centers they
would rent space or share facilities and
this was being done by organizations
even in past thus they would free up the
capital for other use cases now this was
more of user configured manage and
maintained by them later organizations
started thinking of virtualization so
that was again user configured but
provider managed and maintained so
components of a virtualized data center
matched that of a physical Data Center
and organizations would have virtual
devices separately managed from
underlying devices then later came
container based architectures of or
basically automated services so within
Google services are automatically
provisioned and configured letting your
infrastructure scale on demand there are
various reasons why an organization
would think of integrating with cloud or
benefiting by using cloud and thus
instantaneously reaping the benefits of
modernizing their
infrastructure now few famous Cloud
providers are here so you have Amazon
which offers Amazon web services and a
huge list of services which come in with
this you have Microsoft's Azure you have
Oracle Cloud you have saap's Cloud
Solutions gcp which is offered by Google
Salesforce and so on there are many
other small players which are also
providing different Services which are
cloud-based or organizations which which
are partnering with these main Cloud
providers thus offering cloud services
to their
customers when we talk about why Google
Cloud platform there are various reasons
why someone would choose Google Cloud
platform gcp has better pricing compared
to its
competitors when it comes to Speed and
Performance it is very fast and
increases the performance of the
project live migration of apps and and
there are huge number of solutions which
I will show you further in further
screens which help an organization to
adopt to a cloud platform or integrate
with Cloud platform or even completely
migrate into a cloud platform none of
Google's competitors provide live
migration of apps when we talk about Big
Data AI machine learning kind of
solutions gcp provides lot of innovative
solutions in compar to other Cloud
providers such as AWS Azure and so
on so what is Google Cloud platform it
is a set of Cloud Computing Services
provided by Google that runs on the same
infrastructure that Google uses to and
for its end user products like YouTube
Gmail and so
on let's learn about benefits of Google
Cloud platform
such as high productivity working from
anywhere quick collaboration high
security fewer data stored on vulnerable
devices reliable resources which can be
used across organization across
geographical regions across
countries very flexible which allows
organizations to scale up and down as
the demand Rises or as the demand
declines and cost effective Solutions
for various use cases these are some of
the benefits and if we look into
different Services which Google Cloud
platform offers we could look into
detailed benefits which each service
offers in a different use case which
basically helps organizations working in
different domains handling different
kind of small mid or larger businesses
and with different business goals
when we talk about Google Cloud platform
Services here is a list of services or I
could say highlevel domains or
categories of services so you have
compute related Services you have
storage and database you have networking
Big Data developer tools identity and
Security Management Internet of Things
Cloud AI management tools and also data
transfer Solutions
when we talk about Google's
infrastructure Google has one of the
most powerful infrastructure in the
world the infrastructure is available in
two levels the physical and the abstract
layers you have physical infrastructure
and then you have the abstract
infrastructure physical infrastructure
consists of data centers extensive
development of high efficiency backend
data
centers you have a very strong backbone
Network which is used by Google itself
and also offered as services to
customers via gcp platform services so
you have Global mesed redundant backbone
Network points of presence when we talk
about Google it has 110 plus Edge points
of presence in more than 200 countries
and when we talk about Edge caching Edge
caching platform at periphery of their
Network so this
is what defines the physical
infrastructure of Google now there is
much more to it rather than just these
four points when we talk about abstract
infrastructure that is divided in global
regions and zones when we talk about
Zone a zone is roughly equivalent to a
Data Center and a single point of
failure so you could have your compute
engine which is within a zone or you
could say compute engine is a Zone
resource you have regions which are
geographical areas which contain
multiple zones so you could have a
region for us Central or Europe Central
Europe West and so on and within a
region you would have one or multiple
zones and zones basically would allow
High availability of
resources so you have Cloud load
balancer as an example which is regional
resource then you you have global
resources and they are available and
shared across the planet so you have
various global resources such as Network
which could be even your IP addresses
and so
on now let's do a quick comparison of
AWS WS Azure vers gcp and let's look at
what each cloud provider offers later we
will also look into different services
in detail when it comes to Google Cloud
platform what each service does what you
can benefit from which service should
you use in what case we will learn about
those in later slides if I compare your
different Cloud
providers when we talk about Amazon and
its Cloud offerings that is Amazon web
services or AWS as we well know it
Amazon web services has 69 availability
zones with in 22 geographical locations
and soon it will have 12 more in future
so this number keeps growing based on
the spread of the services which a
particular cloud provider offers here we
are talking about availability Zone
specific information when we talk about
Microsoft's Azure it has 54 regions
worldwide and is available in 140
countries across the globe when we talk
about Google Cloud Google Cloud platform
is available in 200 100 plus countries
across the
globe when we talk about virtual servers
Amazon's ec2 that is elastic compute
Cloud it is a web service which
basically helps to resize your compute
capacity where you can run your
application programs on a virtual
machine so using ec2 service you could
launch virtual instances that could have
any distribution of Linux Windows you
could have different specifications when
it comes to Ram or CPU course or disk
you could also decide on what kind of
storage a particular instance should use
whether the storage should be local to
the instance or whe whether that should
be a elastic file system or even an
object
storage when it comes to Azure or
Microsoft's offering Azure virtual
machine that is infrastructure as a
service gives a user the ability to
deploy and manage a virtual environment
inside a virtual Network on the cloud
and this virtual Network on the cloud
would be managed by cloud provider
Google cloud or the offerings from
Google Cloud platform that is gcp VM
instances enables users to build deploy
and manage virtual machines in order to
run different kind of workloads on the
cloud now when we talk about compute
engine here it would be good to discuss
a little bit more about compute engine
and what are the different options which
Google Cloud offers so when you talk
about your compute engine you have
scalable high performance virtual
machines computer engine delivers
configurable virtual machines which run
in Google's data center with access to
high performance networking
infrastructure and block storage and you
could select VMS for your needs that
could be general purpose or workload
optimized and when we talk about
workload optimized you have predefined
machines or you have custom machine
sizes you can integrate compute with
other Google cloud services such as AI
or ML and go for your data analytics you
have when we talk about your gcp VM
instances just to expand on that you
have general purpose instances which we
call as
N2 which provide a balance between price
and performance and they are well suited
for most workloads including line of
business applications web servers and
databases Google Cloud also offers
compute optimized instances which we
call as C2 instances which offer
consistent high-end virtual CPU
performance which are good for AAA
gaming Eda HBC and other applications
now when when we talk about compute
optimize or general purpose how would we
leave memory optimized instances those
are M2 machines which Google offers so
these offer highest amount of memory
these VMS are well suited for inmemory
databases such as sap Hana realtime
analytics and inmemory caches so if I
would summarize this when we talk about
different instances
AWS also offers different kind of instan
which are memory or compute or dis
optimized you have general purpose and
each category of machines has a
different pricing model you can always
go to an AWS website look for the
pricing models and that will give you an
idea of on demand instances or dedicated
instances reserved instances and so on
similarly if you talk about Google Cloud
Google Cloud also has instances with
various options
which become the key features of why
customers would choose Google Cloud
platform such as live migration for VMS
so compute engine within your gcp can
live migrate between host systems and
when I say live migrate it basically
means without rebooting which keeps your
application running even when the
underlying host systems require
maintenance you also have preemptible
virtual machines wherein you can run bad
jobs and fault tolerant workloads on
preemptible VMS to reduce your virtual
CPU and memory cost by up to 80% while
getting the same performance so these
are your preemptive or preemptible
virtual machines the only demit is these
can give you a really cost efficient
resource usage however can be taken off
the shelf anytime and that's why we call
them preemptible virtual machines you
also have sold ten noes which are
physical compute engine servers
dedicated explicitly or exclusively for
users use case and when we talk about
Soul tenant nodes these are usually good
when you are dealing with or when you're
working with your applications which we
call as bring your own license
applications so Soul tenant nodes give
you access to same machine types and
virtual machine config options as
regular compute instances so there are
different options which Google Cloud
offers when it comes to these instances
which we are talking about and it takes
care of different use cases in
comparison to other Cloud providers
which are also offering these services
such as you can have predefined machine
types you can have custom machine types
preemptable VMS as I said live migration
of VMS you can use persistent diss which
could give you durable high performance
block storage you have local ssds you
also have GPU accelerators which can be
added to accelerate computational
intensive workloads such as machine
learning simulation medical analysis and
so on and you have features such as
Global load balancing which makes Google
Cloud a unique
Choice when we talk about platform as a
service Amazon has platform is a service
offering which we call as elastic bean
stock among one of its services it's an
orchestration service for deploying
applications and helping in maintaining
these applications aure cloud service
provides a platform to write the user
application code without worrying about
the hardware resources Google app engine
is a service used by Developers for
building and hosting applications on
Google's data centers when we talk about
serverless Computing so Amazon's AWS
Lambda is a serverless compute service
it is used to execute backend code and
scales automatically when required when
we talk about aure you have something
called as functions which allow users to
build applications using serverless
simple functions with a programming
language of their choice when we talk
about Google cloud gcp has Cloud
functions which is easiest way to run
your code in the cloud and it is highly
available and Fa tolerant so in these
days when we are talking about
microservices architecture which
organizations are preferring when we are
talking about organizations which can
scale which can dynamically change their
underlying architecture organizations
would be interested in server less
computing where they do not have to have
a infrastructure setup a and in advance
before going for their use case and this
is where monolithic applications are
really not a Preferred Choice a lot of
organizations are decomposing their
applications into microservices based on
business capability or decomposing based
on subdomains we can learn about
microservices architecture later but
just to know that serverless Computing
which basically helps any organization
if for example if you have a web
application that receives nonlinear
traffic and you cannot keep an eye on
your server always it would be good to
have someone to autoscale your
application serverless is basically a
Computing model where cloud service
provider is responsible for managing the
piece of code without the developer
having to bother about infrastructure
setup management maintenance and so on
now when we talk about applications
being serverless or benefiting from
serverless Computing one of the key
things would be zero Administration so
deploying application without any
provisioning and management autoscaling
capability that is let the service
provider worry about scaling the
application up and down you have paper
use model which any customer would want
to benefit from that is pay only for the
resource that you have used or that you
are continuing to use right shorten the
time between idea implementation and
deployment and this is something which
any organization would want that you
would want a faster bring to the market
solution timeline in comparison to
getting entangled with deployment
management and maintenance of your
underlying infrastructure when your
applications are facing a high demand
so when we talk about serverless it is a
function as a service because each part
of your application is divided as
functions and can be hosted over
multiple service providers you have
serverless apps which are usually
divided as separate units or functions
based on functionalities or domains and
so on so serverless Computing is gaining
quite popularity these days in
comparison to the traditional three tier
architecture
where you had a presentation layer you
had an application layer you had a
database layer now that kind of
infrastructure is not really preferred
in today's modern times when
organizations are working on different
kind of newer
applications when we talk about object
storage Amazon has simple storage
service that is S3 it provides object
storage which is built for storing and
recovering information or data from
anywhere over the Internet Azure comes
up with blob storage that is binary
large objects storage offers large
amount of storage and scalability it
stores the object in the tiers and
depending on how often the data is being
access now same thing applies to even S3
which is from Amazon so S3 also has
different kind of storage classes which
can be selected when a user or a
organization intends to use a storage
service and when I speak about storage
classes it basically means having a
frequent access storage or a infrequent
access storage or what we call as just
an archival
solution Google cloud has cloud storage
and it provides unified object storage
for live or archive data the service is
used to store and access data on gcp
infrastructure when it comes to
advantages Amazon web services has
Enterprise friendly Services easy access
to resources increase in Speed and
Agility and that to on demand and takes
care of your security and reliability of
resources which are offered when it
comes to eure it has better development
operations strong security profile
provides lot of cost effective Solutions
and operation execution friendly when we
talk about Google Cloud one of the key
features here is better pricing than
competitors live migration of virtual
machines which really interests lot of
organizations would want to modernize
their infrastructure without having any
kind of disruption in their existing
Services improved performance redundant
backups and so on when it comes to
disadvantages in AWS you have
limitations when it comes to ec2 service
well there are different options in the
kind of machines which you can choose
which you can work on you have a
technical support fee which is incurred
network connectivity and then also
downtime which might be in case when
you're migrating as your it has
different code base for cloud and
premise platform as a service ecosystem
is not really as efficient as
infrastructure as a service poor
management of GUI and tools integrated
backup when we talk about Google Cloud
support fee is quite Hefty it depends on
what kind of solution or support you
would or organization would be
interested in it has a complex pricing
schema although it has different use
cases for which any user or any
organization can benefit from
downloading data from Google cloud
services is an expensive option storage
might not be however uploading data or
downloading data would be an expensive
option when we talk about Domino's Piza
use case now while we were discussing
about these features I would really want
to spend more time in discussing each of
these features or services in detail
such as you have compute engine you have
storage you have big table you have data
proc and so on so there are huge list of
services now before we get into your
Domino's Piza use case let me show you
this page on Google Cloud where you can
look at different services so if you go
to cloud.google.com and if you look at
get started option under doc so here you
can find build Solutions look at
different use cases learn from basics of
what is your Google Cloud what are Cloud
Basics then you can look at different
Cloud products so here you have products
in different categories such as Ai and
machine learning API management compute
containers data analytics databases
developer tools and so on and you can
always click on any one of these to look
into different solutions which are being
offered what are the different use cases
what are the best practices when it
comes to migrating VMS to compute engine
or operating containers or building
containers and so on you can always look
at featured products and that gives you
a quick snapshot of what are the
different products such as you have
compute engine you have Cloud run big
query which is a data warehouse you have
cloudsql which is a managed MySQL or
postgress you have cloud storage to
basically push in any kind of data there
you have security key enforcement Ai and
machine learning and so on so you have
different feature products now if you
scroll down to the lower end of this
page you can again look at different
solutions and that would be really
interesting to read and learn from so
you have infrastructure modernization
you have application modernization you
have data management and so on so if I
look at infrastructure
modernization you could basically look
at the solutions which Google Cloud
offers and what it does when it comes to
having your infrastructure modernized or
benefiting by integrating with cloud and
having immediate benefits of
infrastructure modernization you can
look at different use cases what they
are doing how Google Cloud really helps
when it comes to migrating the workloads
to a cloud and how your different Cloud
Solutions such as VM migration you have
sap on Google Cloud VMware as a service
and so on and you could learn from these
different solutions which are offered
you can also look at application
modernization so not only infrastructure
modernization but organizations would
also be interested in relooking at their
applications relooking at how these
applications could be moved from
monolithic to microservices architecture
or how applications can benefit from
modernization and cloud computing
offerings so you have again different
use cases here H which talks about
different ways which Google Cloud can
help how you can modernize your
applications how you can use different
solutions which Google cloud is offering
now when we talk about Cloud Computing
Services you can always go into
cloud.google.com
if you have created a free account then
you can just login and every user by
default gets a $300 free credit so
wherein they can try out different
products where they can use different
services so here if I click on Console
where I'm already logged in with my
Gmail account or my Google Cloud account
wherein I have $300 free credit out of
which some is being used you have a
Google Cloud console and here from the
hamburger menu you can click and you can
look at different services within
different domains so you have compute
domain which has different services such
as app you have compute engine and that
basically allows you to use your VM
instances which we were talking about
previous slides different instance
groups create your templates use Soul
tenant nodes create snapshots or backup
of your data use different zones you can
go for kubernetes which is containerized
based engine you have Cloud functions
you have Cloud run and then you have
storage related different options such
as big table you have data store fire
store file store storage and so on and
for each of these Services you can read
about from the Google's documentation or
anyways I will be explaining that later
you can also look at networking related
operation related and other tools which
are offered by Google Cloud so these are
huge list of services which Google Cloud
platform offers in different ways for
different use cases now let's look at
this Domino's Piza use case and see what
it helps us learn about so you can
always access this page by going to this
link which talks about customers and
then which shows you different use
cases so Domino's increasing monthly
Revenue by 6% with Google analytics
premium Google tag manager and Google
big query so this is basically when
Domino's started using gcp and what was
the result of of that now let's look
further into
this so we all know that Domino is most
popular Piza delivery chain operating
across the globe but how is that
possible let's take a look so the
challenges were they wanted to integrate
marketing measurement across various
devices connecting CRM and Digital Data
to create a clear view of customer
Behavior to make make cross Channel
marketing performance analysis easy and
efficient now for these challenges which
Domino's was facing the solution was
using Google analytics premium Google
tag manager and big query which were
used to integrate Digital Data sources
and CRM data reporting was made easier
and more efficient by implementing
Google analytics premium because it had
the ability to access a single Google
Analytics account to evaluate web and
app
performance by using the new Google tag
manager implementation Dominos were able
to act fast they were able to connect
CRM data with digital analytics which
basically provided Domino with greater
visibility on customer Behavior what was
the result there was an immediate 6%
increase in monthly Revenue 80% of costs
in ad serving and operations for SA D
increases agility with streamline tag
management they obtained easy access to
powerful reporting and customized
dashboards now that was just one simple
use case before we go on to handson we
can also talk a little bit back about
the services which Google Cloud offers
as we discussed and some of these
Services which can really make you think
why not Google Cloud CL platform so when
we talk about your different Cloud
platform Services let's learn about some
of these services in brief in what each
service is what it does and how it can
help us in handling our use cases or
working with different products so let's
learn briefly about different Services
which Google Cloud platform offers now
one of the domains is compute and then
let's look at the compute Services which
gcp offers now here I can log into the
console and this hamburger menu on the
top left corner I can click on this one
and go into the compute engine section
so this is the compute domain which has
app engine kubernetes engine Cloud F
functions and Cloud run so these are
your different Services which are
offered within the compute domain and
here we can get into compute engine by
clicking on this one and then basically
going to VM instances so before we see
how we can use this compute engine let's
understand about some of the features of
compute engine which basically offer
scalable high performance virtual
machines which are configurable and
which runs in Google's data center with
access to high performance networking
infrastructure and block storage so from
here you can select VM for your needs
for your general purpose or workload
optimized predefined or custom machines
now here you can integrate compute with
other Google cloud services such as AI
ML and other data analytics Services you
have different machines which are
offered here such as general purpose
which provide a balance between price
and performance which are well suited
for most workloads including line of
business applications web services and
databases you also have compute
optimized machines which offer con
consistent high-end virtual CPU core
performance and which are mainly good
for gaming Eda High process Computing
and other such applications apart from
general purpose compute optimized you
also have memory optimized machines
which offer highest amount of memory and
these VMS are basically well suited for
in-memory databases such as sap Hana
realtime analytics and inmemory cache
now we can see these options here you
can click on VM instances while you're
logged in into your Google Cloud console
here you can even create an instance
template which can be used to spin up
instances for example if I click on new
VM instance from a template there are
some templates which I have already
created for my usage now here I can
basically use one of these templates or
what I can do is I can go back I can go
into instance templates and this
basically allows me to create a template
so you can click on create instance
template which basically allows you to
create templates which can be used to
spin up different instances we can give
a name to the template for example we
can say template instance now here I can
choose machine configurations and this
is where you have different options so
you have general purpose as I mentioned
which provide a balance between price
and performance you have memory
optimized which are large memory machine
types for memory intensive workloads you
also have compute optimized which
basically give you high performance
machine types for compute intensive
workloads so you can choose any machine
configuration which is available here
based on your requirements now if you
click on general purpose that has
different options here so you look into
the series where you have N1 series you
have E2 which are CPU platform selection
based on availability you have N2 and
n2d so let's just have N1 selected now
you also have here which talks about
machine types and here we can choose the
configuration which we are interested in
depending on the applications which will
run within the machines we can choose a
machine so by default it shows one
virtual CPU core and 3.5 gab of memory
or Ram you could choose a higher end
machine so as of now I'll just say N1
standard now that basically allows me to
choose these machines so there are
different features which your computer
offers such as you have live migration
for VMS you have preemptable virtual
machines you have soul tenant nodes and
all those options can be seen here now
in this machine for my boot dis I can
select a distribution which I would be
interested in for example I could be
going for public images and I can choose
for example ubu and then I can choose a
version so it shows me
16.04 and you also have latest versions
such as UB 220 you can choose one of
these and here it asks you to choose the
boot disk type so that could be standard
persistent disk which is hdds which are
low in performance and uh you can say
low in cost in comparison to ssds so
ssds give you better performance but
then they are little expensive than
using standard persistent disk we can
choose this and we can give a disk size
for example 20 GB and I can click on
select before clicking on select I can
click on custom images and that shows me
if you have any other images created in
your project you could use those you
could also learn about images by
clicking on this link so we'll click on
public images we have chosen this
distribution let's do a select and now
here you have identity and API access
management so let this be default you
can say allow default access
and what you need is depending on the
services we can choose it allows HTTP
and https traffic now we would also need
some way to connect to these machines so
when you set up an instance by default
you can do SSH into it using the Google
Cloud console or from cloud shell you
can also give a private and a public key
so here you have the option where you
can give all these details so when it
comes to management it tells you would
would you want to go for reservations
and you can say automatically use
created reservation you could also say
no you would not want to use a
reservation you can also set up or
provide a startup script which you would
want to give whenever your machines come
up and here you have the options of
preempt ability so compute offers
preemptable virtual machines so that is
mainly when you would want to run bad
jobs and fault tolerant workloads on
these machines and and you can benefit
with a reduced cost for your virtual CPU
and memory by
80% so these are virtual machines which
would be lasting less than 24 hours now
by default this is off and it purely
depends on your workload what you would
want to run on these instances I could
just go ahead and select preemptible
being on that and use this feature of
compute you also have on host
maintenance which talks about what would
be happening with this computer engine
instance so when compute engine performs
periodic infrastructure maintenance it
can migrate your VM instances to other
hardware and this is one of the features
which compute engine offers which we
call as live migration for VMS here your
computer engine can live migrate between
host systems that is the underlying
systems on which these VM instances are
based on without rebooting which will
keep your application running even when
host system require maintenance
maintenance and here it says migrate VM
instance recommended and let that be as
it is you can also say that if there is
a maintenance happening you can
terminate the VM instance now it also
talks about automatic restart which is
on which basically means computer engine
can automatically restart VM instances
if they are terminated from nonuser
initiated reasons so these are all the
settings which are available in
management and it also tells us the
different features which we have there
is also a feature called sold tency
which basically means sold tenant sold
tenant nodes which can be chosen so you
can have physical compute engine servers
dedicated exclusively for your use and
this is usually good when you're talking
about bring your own license
applications so Soul tenant nodes give
you access to same machine types and VM
configuration options as regular compute
instances however these might be a
little expensive we can choose this one
we can also look into networking which
basically shows the default setup which
goes for auto subnet you can also choose
a particular IP if that is required but
that would cost more you can click on
diss which talk about what do you want
to do with the boot dis when the
instance is deleted what is the
encryption mechanism you would want to
use and here finally you have security
so basically as I said you can SSH into
instance using the cloud console option
and you can also provide a public SSH
key so one way of doing that if you
intend to use an external SSH client
such as puty to connect you can create a
key so for example I can go into puty
gen and here I can say generate just
move my cursor over here and that will
create a key I can give a name to this
one so I'll say sdu will be username
I'll give a simple password which I will
use to login to the this machine and
then I can save this private key which
will get saved so let's say hdu new key
and this gets saved in a PPK file which
is usually used when you use an external
SSH client to connect so save this one
and that saves a PPK file on your
desktop what you can also do is you can
copy this public key content from here
and this is what we would want to give
in our instance here so so that the
public key gets stored on the instance
and private key is what we will use to
connect so once I paste it here it
resolves the name to hdu and we have
given the public key now in certain
cases you may want to use a software
which uses SSH to connect to the machine
and that software might not be such as
your puty so in that case you may want a
pem file or a private key which is saved
as a do pem file so you can also do that
by going to conversions and do a export
op SSH key and then save it so I'll say
hdu new key but then this one will be
saved as a pem file on my machine so you
have PPK file which allows you to use
puty to connect to the instance you have
a pem in case a software needs directly
SSH to these machines you also have the
public key which we have already
provided in the machine now once this is
done I can clck puten I can go back to
this page where I'm creating an instance
template and then I can just click on
create so this has created a instance
template which I can use to spin up my
instances any number of instances using
the same template only thing which I
would have to do is change the region
where I would want the instance to run
so now that we have created instance and
that's my this one the third option I
can go back to VM instances now I can
click on Create and here I can either
create an instance from scratch by
giving all the details again or I can
just use my template so I can click on
new VM instance from a template choose
my template click on continue and once
this is done I can give my instance name
so let's say C1 I can choose the region
so I will choose Frankfurt and then rest
everything is autop populated based on
the template what you have given and you
click on create now this basically
allows you to spin up an instance and
you can create any number of instances
using your template you could have
already created a new instance right
from scratch now once the instance is
created this has a public IP and a
private IP private IP will not change
unless you would want to set up a new
machine but public IP will change every
time you stop and start the machine now
this is what we need to connect to this
machine I can also do a SSH from here by
doing this in open in a browser window
let's click on this so this is an
internal way of connecting to your
instance using SSH let's wait because it
would be transferring the SSH keys to
the VM it establishes a connection and
I'm connected to my machine what we can
easily do is to confirm if we are in the
right machine we can just do a LS to
look at the file system what we can also
do is we can basically log in as root by
doing a pseudo Su and that allows you to
get into the machine as rout and from
here I can switch to hdu user which will
have a SSH directory in home and that
basically has authorized keys and if we
would want to see if this one contains
my public key I can just do a cat. SSH
and then look into authorized keys and
this shows me the public key which we
had initially added to our instance so
this confirms that we are logged into
the the machine which we created now I
can close this and what I can also do is
I can copy this public IP so let's do a
copy to
clickbuy and here I will say host name
where I'll say hdu give my public key
I'll click on SSH and in SSH I'll go to
authentication now here we need to give
our PPK file so the PPK file was sdu new
key select this one come back here come
to the session
give it a name for example C1 save it
and then you can just say open and say
yes and you are logged in to your
machine now once you're logged in you
can always do a minus SSH and that shows
you the file so this is how you have
just used the compute engine to spin up
an instance but we used a template which
basically allowed me to create this
instance and then I can connect to this
instance and then I can start working on
this so when we talk about features of
computer engine it has predefined
machine types as we saw so computer
engine offers different predefined
virtual machines and this they have
configurations for every need from small
general purpose instances to large
memory optimized instances with up to
11.5 tab of ram you can have fast
compute instances optimized up to 60
virtual CPU cores you also have custom
machine types so you can create a VM
that best fits your workload and by
tailoring a custom machine type to your
specific need you can realize
significant savings there are
preemptible VMS which we saw there is
also a facility which allows you to take
the benefit of live migration for VMS
you have durable high performance block
storage for virtual machine instances in
the form of persistent discs where data
is stored redundantly for integrity
flexibility and to resize stor storage
without interruption and you could be
choosing sdds or sdds for your instances
now you also have option such as GPU
accelerators so for example if I just
click on create instance and I can look
into that so here let the instance name
be instance one and what I would be
interested in looking at this one which
says CPU platform and GPU so CPU
platform configuration is permanent you
can also do add GPU so gpus can be added
to accelerate computationally intensive
workloads like machine learning
simulation medical analysis and virtual
workstation applications so you can add
and remove gpus to a VM when your
workload changes and pay for GPU only
while using so these are some of the
features which basically compute engine
offers and we already know that Google
builds in second level increments so we
only pay for the computer time now there
are different savings which are possible
so you have commitment savings which
basically means you can save up to 57%
with a upfront cost per instance type
lockin you have container support so you
can basically run manage and orchestrate
Docker containers or compute engine
instances so here when we are setting up
our instances there is an option which
basically allows you to use or deploy
Docker images now that can be done you
can also benefit from sustained use
savings that is sustained use discounts
which are automatic discounts for
running compute engine resources for
significant portion of the billing month
you can create a reservation for VM
instance in a specific Zone which is
basically seen under your management
section here and you can ensure your
project has resources for future
increases in demand and if no longer
needed delete the reservation so these
are some of the features of compute
engine what we have done is we have
created compute engine using the console
now you can go back you can also do that
using Cloud shell and you can click on
this one which activates Cloud shell you
could also have the cloud SDK support on
set up on your machine which can be used
now I can just open this in a new window
and from here I can start giving
commands if I would be interested in
setting up an instance from my command
line so here you have different options
now to begin with you can just do a
gcloud and just hit enter and that will
show you different options which are
available which can be used so you have
gcloud compute here which shows an
option to create and manipulate compute
engine resources now I can just do a q
to quit I can do gcloud compute and that
basically will again show me different
options options which are available if
you would be interested in setting up
instances from the command line so here
I can say gcloud compute and then go for
instances and if you do not know the
commands you can just hit enter that
will show you all the different options
which we have so here we have different
options such as list or create or start
or update for example I can just do a
list here to see what instances I have
and the instance which we just created
shows up here it says that status is
running I can just stop this instance I
can delete this instance I can even
create an instance by using a create
command here and you can just do a
create help which will show you what are
the different options you can give so it
says instance name is what you need you
can choose an accelerator you can choose
the boot dis and various other options
so I I can just say create and then I
can give a name for example C2 and once
I click on this one it says did you mean
Europe West for zone so it is asking me
for the region and the zone and I can
say yes and these settings are coming
from my default profile I can always
change those by changing the metadata so
now we have created an instance it says
running if we do a list again to see we
see two instances created one was in
Europe West 3 one was in Europe W West 4
both of them have internal and external
IPS now you can do a describe to look at
the different options here so g-cloud
basically allows you different commands
which you can use to work with your
instance to create instances to change
the metadata if you would want to change
the region if you would want to add a
startup script all those options are
possible from the Comm on line which we
can learn in detail in later sessions so
this is your compute engine as a service
now that we have learned about the
compute domain and G compute Services
which is offered by gcp let's also learn
about storage and databases that's again
within the storage domain and the
services which are offered by Google
Cloud platform now you can go back to
console and here you can click on on
this one and here you can just scroll
down to see what are the different
options in storage so you have options
such as big table you have data store
fire store file store you have SQL Based
Services you have storage which is
object storage and then you have other
options which are available so Google
Cloud platform offers different storage
Based Services out of which storage
which is your object storage is quite
popular one click on storage and that
basically shows you an option which
talks about storage browser so this is
your Google Cloud's object storage so
when we talk about object storage it is
basically a storage where you could
store any kind of data and when we talk
about object storage it is a bunch of
bytes which we address wherein every
object will have a unique key these
unique keys are in the form of URL which
allows you to access the object object
so cloud storage is comprised of what we
call as buckets which are used to store
and hold your storage objects the
storage objects are immutable and every
change creates a new version now you can
also have control access via am that is
identity access management or via Access
Control list so there is also an option
called object versioning which basically
says if it is on every time you try to
store the same object a new version of
the object would be created otherwise
newer option will override old one as we
cannot archive the old version so let's
see how we work with this object storage
so here you can click on create bucket
now once you click on create bucket it
needs a name so let's say test bucket
and here I can just give say number one
so that says this is the name of my
bucket now I can directly click on
continue or it would be good to look at
different options which are available
here so when you click on choose where
to store your data so it already gives
me an option it says the bucket name is
already taken so let me give it a unique
name so let's say test buck and let's
call it AUA so that should be unique now
here it says choose where to store your
data so this one gives you location type
so you can have region specific buckets
which give you lowest latency that is
fastest response time within a single
region however it does not make your
storage highly available you can make a
dual region which is basically allowing
your bucket or storage to be accessible
across regions you can also make it
multi- region which is highest
availability offered as of now we can
choose region specific and now it asks
you to choose a location now as always I
will choose Frankfurt now I can click on
continue and rest all the rest let all
the storage options with default or you
can click on a default storage class now
that tells you based on your storage
class there are variant costs when it
comes to storing retrieving or doing any
kind of operations so you have a
standard option which says best for
short-term storage and frequently Access
Data you can also go for Cold Storage
such as near line which is best for
backups and data access less than once a
month you can go for freezing storage
such as cold line best for disaster
recovery and data accessed less than
once a quarter or you can go for
archiving where the data is accessed
less than once a year let's go for
standard as of now and now you can
choose how to control access to objects
so you have fine grain or uniform let it
be fine grained wherein you can give
additional permissions at Bucket Level
using IM am or object level permissions
using access control list in advanced
settings you can choose the encryption
and you can also choose a retention
policy so a retention policy to specify
the minimum duration that this buckets
objects must be protected from deletion
or modification after they are uploaded
you can always learn about this more by
clicking here now once I've chosen all
the relevant options I can click on
create
and that basically will create a bucket
by the name I have given I can click on
overview to basically see brief details
about my bucket such as region what is
the default storage class and it also
shows you the link URL which can be used
to access your bucket it also gives you
the link for GS util now GS util is a
command which can be used in your Cloud
shell to basically work with your
buckets you you can click on permissions
to basically see what kind of
permissions are already in place and you
can then make changes you can basically
add members you can view by different
roles so for example here by default it
shows other services such as data proc
or your bucket owner or bucket reader
related permissions which have been
already granted now once I've looked at
my bucket I can start using it I can
drag and drop and files here so as of
now there are no live objects in my
object storage that is in my bucket what
I can do is I can click on upload files
and then I can choose a location from my
machine for example I'll go to data sets
and what I can do is I can choose some
of the files here in any format let's
choose CSV or text and just do open so
this one will basically upload my data
sets here now once I've uploaded the
files I can basically close this one I
can look into options here which says
edit permissions edit metadata if you
would want to download it if you would
want to copy move or rename it if you
would want to export to a different
service called Cloud Pub sub which is
publish subscribing messaging system you
can scan the data now you can click on a
particular file and that basically shows
you the URL which basically allows you
to access this file you can try copying
this you can click on download and
download this file you can even try
accessing this from public and that
basically shows you the content of this
file based on the permissions so this is
basically your object storage which is
one of the service which is offered what
you can also do is you can create
folders and within folders you can then
upload your data so this is your Google
Cloud Storage option which is for your
object storage that is you can add
different items you can give different
permissions and you can use this Google
Cloud platforms storage service offering
now you also have other options such as
big table and we can go into that by
clicking here and click on big table so
big table is one of the service which
kickstarted no SQL databases today in
Market we see different nosql databases
such as cassendra hbase mongod DB couch
DB Neo 4J and many others so you can
basically use big table which was the
pineer when it comes to your no SQL
databases or not only SQL databases so
the problem initially faced by Google
was that uh the web indexes behind
search engine were taking too long to BU
bu so company wanted to build database
that would provide realtime access to
petabytes of data and that's where big
table began so big table powers
different other Google services such as
Gmail Google Maps and other services and
in
2015 it was launched as a service for
customers so when it comes to
scalability with use of big table you
can increase your machine count without
any downtime and you can handle admin
tasks like upgrades restarts and so on
which are basically taken care by the
cloud provider data present in Cloud big
table is encrypted and you can use IM
roles to specify access so data written
to or from big table is through data
service layers such as managed virtual
machines hbas rest servers Java Services
hbas client and so on here if I would
want to use big table I can click on
create instance and that basically tells
me Cloud big table instance is a
container for your clusters now here you
can give a instance name so for example
I will say
AUA and then say for example test and
let's say big table so that will be the
name of instance this will be permanent
you can choose the storage type again
you can go for lower latency more rows
red per second typically used for
real-time serving use cases or you can
go for sdds which have higher latency
for random reads good performance on
scans and typically used for batch
analytics so let's go for ssds as of now
here you have cluster ID which is autop
populated you can choose a region so
let's go for our favorite one here where
I can say Europe West 3 I can choose a
Zone here and I can then choose how many
nodes would I want to use for my big
table so when you talk about big table
service it will have a cluster
underlying which will have various nodes
which will control your data throughput
storage and rows read per second so as
of now let it be just one node and
that's enough for our demo when we talk
about performance it basically tells you
based on the current node and storage
type it tells you how many reads can
happen at millisecond so it says 10,000
rows per second at 6 millisecond you
have rights which are 10,000 rows per
second or you have scans which are 220
megabytes per second storage which is
taken care here would be 2.5 tabt and I
can then basically click on create now
there is also some option called
replication guidance which basically
says replication for cloud table big
table copies your data across multiple
regions enabling you to isolate workload
and increase the availability and
durability of your data depending on
your use case you can have big table
with which can be used to have your data
across regions now you can click on
create with all your specifications
Chosen and that's going to set up a
cluster or you can say a fully managed
nosql database which will give you low
latency and replication for high
availability now once we have a new
instance you can connect to it with the
CBT command line tool and for
instructions you can click on learn more
here you can just click on this instance
ID to see the details again if you would
want to look into your big table setup
so it tells me here that we have one
instance what is the CPU utilization
time how many rows were read or written
what is the throughput and this is autop
populated based on your usage you can
click on monitoring and that basically
will give you different widgets which
will display information for your CPU
utilization what is your hottest node
depending on how many notes you have
system errors automatic failovers
storage utilization and so on you can
click on key visualizer which will allow
you to look into your table if you have
already created some data here and you
can click on tables to see how many
tables you have added here so that's in
brief about your big tables which is one
thing which we need to remember is it's
not good for all use cases so should be
used for low incy access that is fast
access and good if at least data is
greater than 1 tbyte for smaller amount
of data the overhead is too high so big
tables performance will suffer if you
store individual elements larger than 10
megabytes if you want to store bigger
objects such as images video files then
go for object storage and that would be
a better option so always remember big
table is not a relational database it's
a nosql database and when you talk about
multi transactions or online transaction
processing big table is not the right
choice so it can be used for wide range
of applications ESP especially when you
talk about your olap that is online
analytical processing so it is designed
to store key value Pairs and there can
be different use cases so for example if
you're using something like cloud data
flow or cloud data proc where you would
want map reduce kind of operations big
table can act as a good storage because
it has very high throughput and
scalability and the best thing is that
it supports hbas API thus allowing easy
integration with Apache Hadoop and Spar
clusters which you can bring up using
one more service which Google Cloud
platform offers which is called cloud
data proc so big table is good for
real-time analytics it's commonly seen
in financial services iot and others and
if you are thinking of running
interactive SQL then big table would not
be the right choice but the other choice
would be big query you should also
remember that this has a cluster running
and you would be charged if this cluster
kept on running so you have to be very
careful in your free account when you're
using such Services now we have clicked
on this one so I can select this one and
basically I can look at the permissions
I can look at the labels I can look at
inherited permissions here I can also
click on my
instance which we created and either you
can edit or you can just do a delete so
as of now we will just delete this which
needs you to give the name so we'll say
AUA test BT and then click on delete so
whenever you are trying out different
Services the first approach should be
setting up these different Services
seeing how they work basically trying
connecting to them and once you are
satisfied with the initial test then you
can plan your actions and come back and
use the service for a longer duration
now that's your big table which is one
of the offerings we can go back into
storage and here you have other options
which are available so for example we
were in big table you also have an
option such as cloud data store now
that's one more service which is offered
by Google Cloud platform when it comes
to storage domain so Google added
software on top of big table which
supports more than simple key value
pairs when you talk about secondary
indexes instead of just having one
primary index when you talk about asset
properties for Reliable transactions
such as SQL query like language so these
features or these Services were added to
or on top of your big table which gave
birth to a new service which was
released as cloud data store so this is
where you have cloud data store and you
can select a CL Cloud fire store mode so
you can go for a native mode enable all
Cloud fire stores features with offline
support or you can go for Cloud's data
store system on top of clouds fire store
so these are different options here and
here we look at the API or scalability
engine support how many rights it
supports and so on you can choose one of
these and then you can choose where to
store your data so for example if I
click on this one then it choose asks me
to choose a location so it says the
location of your database effect its
cost availability and durability choose
a regional location lower right latency
lower cost or multi- region location
here I can basically choose for example
Europe and then I can go ahead and
create a data datase so it says
initializing Cloud fire store in data
store mode services in eu3 this usually
takes a few minutes you'll be redirect
to your database once it is ready so if
we compare the pricing structure between
cloud data store and Cloud big table
always remember cloud data store you pay
for monthly storage which is also in the
case of big table however here you are
paying for monthly storage for reads and
wrs but in case of big table you're
paying for cluster when it is running so
cloud data store is a good option for
small data in frequent access and it
acts cheaper when you talk about large
amount of data or big data and frequent
access then you are talking about Cloud
big table so big table is cheaper when
you talk about larger amount of data so
here it says since your database is
empty you can still switch to Cloud fire
store in Native mode to get more
features you could do that you could
learn you could say query by
gql as of now we don't have any data
here let's look at the dashboard which
says since your database is empty you
can still switch to cloudfire store in
Native mode to get more features so this
is your cloud data store and it has many
features which help you to work with
your data however some features or
important features of rdbms's were still
missing and
that's where Google created yet another
big table based service called Cloud
spanner now we can continue working on
cloud data store which basically gives
you one option to work with your data
you can create an entity here by
clicking on create entity and that
basically gives you options such as
default name space you can give a kind
you can give numeric ID and you can
start adding properties but to learn
more about data store we will learn
about this in further sessions so as of
now I'm going to click on cancel I'm
going to go back to my data store and
this basically let's go to data store
option or I can go into admin here which
basically says if you have entities you
can import or export them so let's go
back and let's again look into storage
options so as of now we were in data
store let's click on this one
so as I mentioned your cloud data store
which basically gives you some
additional features on top of your big
table but what Google also did was it
realized that there was a need for rdbms
feature support that is there were lot
of features now here we have created a
data store and it says your datab base
is ready to go just add data you can
create entity start putting in data and
then you can go ahead and query this so
if you want to learn more about your
data store you can just click on this
one and that takes you to the complete
documentation of native mode and data
store mode what is fire store in Native
mode what is in data store mode what are
pricing and locations how you choose a
database mode what are the feature
comparisons what you can do what you are
allowed to do here what programming
languages can be used different regions
pricing and so on as of now we'll click
on this one and let's look at one
advanced service which Google Cloud came
up with when it comes to your additional
features of rdbms so Google created yet
another big table based service called
Cloud spanner now that you might not see
here but if you scroll down you should
be able to see your Cloud spanner in the
options here or did we miss it on the
top so let's again look here yeah so it
is here and you can click on spanner so
Cloud spanner was released in 2017 it
basically supports relational schema so
it offers strong consistency for all
queries which can be SQL based you can
have multi- region deployment now when
it comes to massive scalability
requirement and strong consistency Cloud
spanner is a good option so it says
Cloud spanner is a managed Mission
critical globally consistent and
scalable relational database so if you
would want to use this then you will
have to enable this a API where it shows
you an option here it says try this API
so it's a managed service so it is one
of the Google's most expensive database
Services there is also one more database
service which is cloudsql which can be
used so when we talk about your Cloud
spanner it is fully managed relational
database service it is massively
distributed you can have millions of
machines across hundreds of data centers
with support automatic shard and
synchronous replication it gives you low
latency and schema updates without Dum
time making data High availability and
reliability so we'll learn about Cloud
spanner with more details later in other
sessions now we can also go back to
storage and we can look at the different
options which we have here so you have
object storage you have spanner you also
have your SQL based service which is is
yet another manage service offered by
cloud or Google Cloud I would say so
that's called cloudsql so this is
basically a service which allows you to
have fully managed relational MySQL
postgress and SQL Server databases
Google handles replication patch
management database management and other
things which are related to this managed
or fully manage database service it can
allow you to handle terabytes of storage
capacity
with
40,000 iops with huge amount of ram per
instance so you can click on create
instance here and then you can choose
one of the database which you would want
to use so cloudsql is a manage service
you can choose one of your MySQL or post
and SQL Server say for example I choose
MySQL now that basically tells me what
is the instance ID it sets up a password
you can always change the password you
can change the region you can choose
your database version and then you can
also look at other configuration options
which talk about machine type which will
be used what is about your backup and
Recovery maintenance and all that and if
you click on create this will basically
create a fully managed SQL service which
can allow you to straight away start
using MySQL on cloud thus allowing you
to store your relational data when we
talk about storage options how can we
not talk about a data warehouse solution
or basically an option which allows you
to run your queries by directly updating
data so you can use a data warehouse
service which Google Cloud platform
offers and that's called big query so
basically you can be looking into the
Big Data section here and here you have
an option called Big query so this
basically brings ease of implement
mentation and speed so building your own
data Weare house can be expensive time
consuming and difficult to scale so with
big query you just load data and pay
only for what you use so it when it
comes to Features you have features such
as capability to process billions of
rows in seconds and if you would want to
do realtime analysis of streaming data
that is also possible here so here we
have clicked on big query which
basically shows you the option where you
can start typing your query and test
your data access for example if I have
uploaded some data so it shows me there
are some queries which are saved here
now I can schedule your query I can
basically choose the format of a
particular query by clicking on this
more here I have an option which says
add data so I can pin it to a particular
project I can explore public data sets I
can create a connection so if I click on
explore public data sets then it takes
me to a page from where you can get
different kind of data sets which are
already available which you can put into
your big query and start querying your
data by default it shows that it is
aligned to my project and I don't need
to worry about it I can look at saved
queries if I have already saved a
particular query I can look at job
history I can look at transfers
scheduled queries and reservations so
big query basically initially had its
own version of SQL which was slightly
different from standard SQL but in 2016
big query 2 was release that supports
SQL 2011 standard you can always select
standard SQL now big query when it comes
to pricing we need to remember that the
storage is the storage cost is very less
here approximately 02 cents per GB per
month it is almost similar to near line
where you you can also have low cost
that is 01 cents per gigabyte per month
there is no charge for reading data from
Storage when it comes to querying and
that's where the cost is incurred so 1
terabyte per month is free and after
that it costs few cents per gigabyte so
this is mainly for high volume customers
there is a flat rate P pricing which can
be used so when you talk about querying
you can save your query results you can
create data set to store the results now
results are put in a temp table in Cache
and after you are done with that you can
delete data set and delete all the data
so when you talk about loading data into
big query you can get the data from
cloud storage Google Drive cloud data
store stack driver stack uh driver other
options you have Cloud big table or
other web interface bis so you can
download from URL such as CSV Json AO
you can create data set create table and
create from Source by doing a file
upload so 10 megabyte or less files can
be uploaded using web interface as an
option you can also use command line and
then you can start working with your big
query so here you can also work with
streaming data by basically pushing in
streaming data into your big query which
allows you to add one record at a time
now you could use something like cloud
data flow which allows you to use a
particular pipeline about cloud data
flow we will learn later so you can
benefit from different features of big
query and thus use Google's offering to
work on your structured data or I would
say data which suits well in data
warehouses now these are some of the
storage related Services which Google
Cloud offers although we will learn
about using big query and running or
uploading some data by creating add data
set here by say creating connection or
using a public data set so as of now I
have this you can also access the
command line to work with this but we
will learn in detail about big query in
later sessions now here you can scroll
down and you also have an option within
Big Data space and that is your data
proc so when you talk about data proc
this is again a manage service which
allows you to run spark or Hadoop jobs
so especially if you are interested in
Big Data workload so for big data
processing for machine learning you can
always use cloud data process
this uses compute engine instances under
the hood but takes care of management of
these instances so it's a it's a layer
on top to spin UPF clusters it's a
manage service it's cheaper pay when the
jobs are running only it's fast because
it it is integrated with other Google
cloud services you have open- Source
components pre-installed and data proc
is integrated with Yan to make cluster
management easier when you talk about
data proc you can click on create
cluster and that basically allows you to
set up your cluster by choosing a
particular region which you would want
to use for example I'll choose Europe
West 4 here it tells what kind of
machines you would want to use and by
default it has populated as the machine
here which is 4 CPU and 15 GB now since
you might be using a free account let's
not go for the highend machine let's go
for N1 standard 2 and then you can
scroll down it says what is the primary
disk what is the disk type and this one
was for your master machine that is
machine which will have the master
processes running then you have your
worker node configuration which tells
this will be let's choose a lower end
machine and we can choose how many
worker notes you would have so it says
minimum to you can choose the ssds and
their capacity it talks about yarn cores
and Yar memory which will be allocated
and here we have then option of clicking
on create so once you click on create
this will basically spin up a cluster
wherein you can straight away start
submitting jobs to this you can
basically go ahead once your cluster is
ready you can go into the cluster you
can submit a job you can choose a type
which is spark or any other application
which you would want to run and then
basically you can use this fully managed
service which allows you to run your big
data clusters you can obviously control
access via roles or Access Control list
and you can have access as it is at
project level or based on your data proc
cluster or even at your worker notes so
we'll learn about data proc in later
sessions so as of now you see here the
cluster is getting created it's says the
cloud storage bucket which it is using
is this one now I can click on this and
open link in a new tab it still takes me
into console but now it is showing me
the bucket which is being used by your
data proc cluster this is the bucket
which is being used and it is being used
for un underlying metadata which gets
stored here so you look at the cluster
related folders you can click in these
folders and then it can see what is the
script output what it is doing and so on
now I can come back here to my bucket
which will basically show me what kind
of buckets have been created so you see
data proc service automatically created
some buckets which will be holding some
data you also have some other buckets
which were created based on other
services which we used the access
control is fine grained in all cases
plus it also shows our bucket so
underlying it is using compute instances
it is basically using let's go here and
let's go to compute engine and let's
look into VM instances so data proc
which has spun up a cluster is also
using the VM instances which we see here
are running it is using the buckets and
it has made a cluster ready to use so
you can click on this cluster and that
shows me my cluster related details if
there are any jobs running what are VM
instances what kind of configurations it
has used and you can look at different
details here you can look at the logs
you can click on jobs and that will show
you if you have basically run a job on
this ready to use cluster so it says
there is this particular job which was
run which was a spark job you can click
on submit and this one tells you what is
the job ID what is the region you would
choose for example we will again choose
for example Europe West 4 four it tells
what is the job type so you can run all
these type of jobs in this cluster such
as Hadoop spark P spark Hive Pig Presto
you can give your jar file so if you
have packaged your application as a jar
you can mention that here you can pass
in some arguments you can also say some
other jar files add some properties and
then click on submit which will run your
job on this ready to use cluster now
since we have tested it I can basically
go ahead and and do a delete I don't
want to incur any cost on these manage
services which are running so there are
lot more information about using these
Services which Google Cloud platform
offers and we can continue learning
about these Services as we explore your
Google Cloud console or even your
command line option now we can come out
of this one by clicking on this menu and
then we have other options such as
kubernetes you have Cloud function
functions you have your networking
related Services monitoring related
Services different kind of tools what
you have you have other big data
specific Services which you can learn
about and for each of these service
Google has a very good documentation
available for example when you talk
about publish subscribe messaging system
it is a realtime manage service which
basically is a Pioneer which was used
and now you have have a famous service
such as Kafka which is being used for
your publish subscribing or messaging
system kind of
requirements so to conclude about Google
Cloud platform Services you can always
go to cloud.google.com and look into the
document section now here you have list
of different featured products you also
have list of your different domains and
services which Google Cloud offers
offers and you can learn about all the
different Services which are offered by
Google Cloud here you can click on
featured products and that basically
shows you compute engine Cloud run cloud
storage you have cloudsql big query
Vision AI you can scroll down and look
at your artificial intelligence and
machine learning related Services
platform and accelerators API
management so Google Cloud platform
offers different services in mainly in
your compute storage and databases you
have networking related Services Big
Data specifics developer tools Cloud AI
identity and Security iot Management
tools API platform and so on so
basically learn about the gcp services
which Google Cloud platform offers and
in detail you can play around with
different Services which are offered by
creating a free account and as I
demonstrated you can use any one of
these Services quickart them basically
connect to them put in your data or use
a manage service to manage your data and
benefit from Google Cloud platform thus
having modernized infrastructure for
your different use cases hi guys today
we've got something very special in
store for you we're going to talk about
the best cloud computing platform
available Amazon web services uh Rahul I
think you said something wrong here the
best cloud computing platform is
obviously Google Cloud platform no it
isn't AWS has more than 100 services
that span a variety of domains all right
but Google Cloud platform has cheaper
instances what do you have to say about
that well I guess there's only one place
we can actually discuss this a boxing
ring so guys I'm AA and I will be Google
Cloud platform and I'm Rahul I'll be AWS
so welcome to night this is AWS versus
gcp the winner will be chosen on the
basis of their origin and the features
they provide their performance in the
present day and comparing them on the
basis of pricing market share and
options the things they give you for
free and instance configuration now
first let's talk about AWS AWS was
launched in 2004 and is a cloud service
platform that helps businesses grow and
scale by providing them services in the
number of different domains these
domains include compute database storage
migration networking and so on a very
important aspect about AWS is its years
or experience now AWS has been in the
market a lot longer than any other cloud
service platform which means they know
how businesses work and how they can
contribute to the business growing also
AWS has over $5.1 billion of Revenue in
the last quarter this is a clear
indication of how much faith and trust
people have in AWS they occupy more than
40% of the market which is a significant
sunk of the cloud computing Market they
have at least 100 services that are
available at the moment which means just
about every issue that that you have can
be solved within AWS service now that
was great but now can we talk about gcp
I hope you know that gcp was launched
very recently in 2011 and it is already
helping businesses significantly with a
suite of intelligent secure and flexible
Cloud Computing Services it lets you
build deploy and scale applications
websites services on the same
infrastructure as Boogle the intuitive
user experience that gcp provides with
dashboards Wizards is way better in all
all the aspects gcp has just stepped in
the market and it is already offering a
modest number of services and the number
is rapidly increasing and the cost for a
CPU instance or Regional storage that
gcp provides is a whole lot cheaper and
you also get a multi-regional cloud
storage now what do you have to say on
that I'm so glad you asked let's look at
present day in fact let's look at the
cloud market share of the fourth quarter
of 2017 this will tell you once and for
all that AWS is the leader when it comes
to cloud computing Amazon web services
contributes 4 7% of the market share
others like Rackspace or Verizon cloud
contribute 36% Microsoft a your
contributes 10% the Google Cloud
platform contributes 4% and IBM software
contributes 3% 47% of the market share
is contributed by AWS you need me to
convince you anymore wait wait wait all
that is fine but we only started a few
years back and have already grown so
much in such a less span of time haven't
you heard the latest news our revenue is
already a billion dollars per quarter
wait for a few more years and the world
shall see and AWS makes $5.3 billion per
quarter it's going to take a good long
time before you can even get close to us
yes yes we'll see now let's compare a
few things for starters let's compare
prices for AWS a computer instance of 2
CPUs and 8 GB ram costs approximately
$68 now a computer instance is a virtual
machine in which you can specify what
operating system Ram or storage you want
to have for cloud storage it costs 2.3
cents per GB per month with AWS you
really want to do that because gcp wins
this hands down let's take the same
compute instance of 2 CPUs with 8 GB Ram
it will cost approximately $50 per month
with gcp and as for my calculations
that's a 25% annual cost reduction when
compared to AWS talking about cloud
storage cost it is only 2 cents per GB
per month with gcp what else do you want
me to say let's talk about market share
and options now AWS is the current
market leader when it comes to cloud
computing now as you remember we
contribute at least 47% of the entire
market share AWS also has at least 100
services available at the moment which
is a clear indication of how well AWS
understands businesses and helps them
grow yeah that's true but you should
also know that gcp is steadily growing
we have over 60 services that are up and
running as you can see here and a lot
more to come it's only a matter of time
when we will have as many services as
you do many companies have already
started adopting gcp as a cloud service
provider now let's talk about things you
get for free with AWS you get access to
almost all the services for an entire
year with usage limits now these limits
include an hourly or by the- minute
basis for example with Amazon ec2 you
get 750 hours per month you also have
limits on the number of requests to
services for example with AWS Lambda you
have 1 million requests per month now
after these limits are crossed you get
charged standard rates with gcp you get
access to all Cloud platforms products
like Firebase the Google Maps API and so
on you also get $300 in credit to spend
over a 12 Monon period on all the cloud
platform products and interestingly
after the free trial ends you won't be
charged unless you manually upgrade to a
paid account now there is also the
always free version for which you will
need an upgraded billing account here
you get to use a small instance for free
and 5gb of cloud storage any usage above
this always free usage limits will be
automatically build at standard rates
now let's talk about how you can
configure instances with AWS the largest
instance that's offered is of 128 CPUs
and 4 TVs of ram now other than the on
demand method like I mentioned before
you can also use spot instances now
these are for situations where your
application is more fall tolerant and
can handle an interruption now you pay
for the spot price which is effective at
a particular hour now these SP fices do
fluctuate but are adjusted over a period
of time the largest instance offered
with Google cloud is 160 CPUs and 3.75
TBS Ram like spot instances of AWS
Google Cloud offers shortlived compute
instances suitable for bad jobs and fall
tolerant workloads they are called as
preemptable instances so these instances
are available at 80% off on on demand
price hence they reduce your compute
engine cost significantly and unlike AWS
these come at a fixed price Google Cloud
platform is a lot more flexible when it
comes to instance configuration you
simply choose your CPU and RAM
combination of course you can even
create your own instance types this way
before we wrap it up let's compare on
some other things as well Telemetry it's
a process of automatically collecting
periodic measurements from remote
devices for example GPS gcp is obviously
better because they have Superior
Telemetry tools which help in analyzing
services and providing more
opportunities for improvement when it
comes to application support AWS is
obviously better since they have years
of experience under their bet AWS
provides the best support that can be
given to the customers containers are
better with GCB a container is a virtual
process running in user space as
kubernetes was originally developed by
Google gcp has full native support for
the tool other cloud services are just
fine-tuning a way to provide cubes as a
service also the containers help with
abstracting applications from their
environment they originally running the
applications can be deployed easily
regardless of their environment when it
comes to geographies AWS is better since
they have a head start of a few years
AWS in this span of time has been able
to cover a larger market share and
geographical locations now it's time for
the big decision so who's it going to be
yeah who is it going to be gcp or AWS I
think I'm going to go for choosing the
right cloud computing platform is the
decision that's made on the basis of the
user or the organization's requirement
on that note I believe it's time for us
to wrap this video up we hope you guys
enjoyed this video and and learn
something new that AWS is better right
know that choosing a platform entirely
depends on you and your organization's
requirement hello everyone welcome to
this session on Google Cloud platform
website hosting and let's understand
what Google Cloud platform offers when
it comes to your web hosting
requirements here we will learn about
Google Cloud web hosting some basics of
cloud computing web hosting service
providers what is g CCP and why go for
it different types of web hosting which
are possible a use case such as Lush and
a quick handson on using gcp for web
hosting when you talk about Cloud web
hosting Google cloud has the feature of
hosting a secure and reliable websites
easily it ensures customers and sites
protection the website is a is hosted on
a fast and reliable Network you can do
more work for Less Price with Google
Cloud now when we talk about Google
Cloud it is always good to know some
basics of our cloud computing now when
we talk about cloud computing cloud
computing is basically using resources
which are provided by your cloud service
provider such as Google cloud and cloud
computing basically means using hardware
and software components to deliver a
service on a network now here users can
access files applications from any
device that can access Internet so when
we talk about cloud computing this is
basically using Services which are
hosted on the infrastructure manag by
cloud provider when we talk about
resources which can be used that may
include big data services storage
options your Computing options
networking options and various other
services which a cloud provider
offers cloud computing has various
different service models such as you
have platform as a service software as a
service infrastructure as a service also
these days we talk about containers as a
service and these are your different
Computing service models which are being
offered by cloud service providers which
allow you for Auto automatic integration
with your existing environment or if you
would want to benefit from modernization
by using a cloud providers
infrastructure you have different
Services which are offered some of them
are for auto software integration or
migration backing up and restoring data
scaling your storage capacity that is
going for an unlimited storage capacity
and us a resource provided by cloud
service provider benefiting from
reliability cost efficiency which is
offered by a cloud provider in this case
we are talking about Google Cloud when
you talk about web hosting service
providers there are various web hosting
service providers you have AWS you have
square space IBM Cloud GoDaddy Blu host
and Google Cloud so what is gcp and why
go for it
when you talk about gcp or as we call it
as Google Cloud platform it a set of
Cloud Computing Services provided by
Google that runs on the same
infrastructure that Google uses for it
end user products like YouTube Gmail and
much more when you talk about gcp there
are various reasons why anyone would
choose it for their use cases now let's
look at some reasons when you talk about
pricing gcp has better pricing
compared to its competitors depending on
the services which you would use whether
that would be infrastructure as a
service such as using compute engine
instances and running your applications
on them or might be a managed service
such as data proc or big table or your
big query where you can have your Hado
clusters running or store huge amount of
data or even build your data warehouse
wherein you can store structured data so
there are different services with gcp
offers and pricing has been a better
option in case of Google in comparison
to other competitors when you talk about
Speed and Performance it's very fast and
increases the performance of your
project if you use different services
offered by
Google when you talk about live
migration of apps this is one of the
features which organizations usually
like which none of other computers are
offering when it comes to live migration
of apps so there are specific features
for example when you talk about computer
engine there is a feature stating live
migration wherein your resources or your
instances which are running applications
would be migrated during say maintenance
from one underlying host to another
underlying host without affecting your
application's performance and you can
benefit from that when you talk about
Big Data Google cloud has various
offerings in Big Data space and that's
one of the advantages of gcp in
comparison to other competitors you have
different services for your big data
needs such as Pub sub for publish
subscribing messaging system or going
for data proc which basically allows you
to spin up your Hadoop and Spark
clusters to run your different jobs and
so on so when we talk about features of
Google Cloud platform it offers High
productivity because you are using the
resources which are based on the same
infrastructure which Google uses for its
own different use cases you can work
from anywhere provided you have internet
connection and you can connect to the
cloud platform and use different
services offered via web you can quickly
collaborate with different teams or
different colleagues working on
different projects which might be
sharing or using different gcp resources
you are benefiting from high security
and different encryption and security
mechanisms with gcp offers now there are
fewer sources or you could say data
which is stored or vulnerable devices
there is high reliability flexibility or
scalability which gcp offers and the
cost Effectiveness really makes it as a
good choice when you would want to
benefit from infrastructure model
modernization and using a cloud platform
solution for your use case now when you
talk about different types of web
hosting Google Cloud offers three types
of web hosting you have WordPress now it
is a free and open- Source content
management system you might have used in
past or have heard about WordPress where
lot of websites are being created it is
a popular web publishing platform to
easily set up blogs and websites and
thus used by organizations or even
individual users for having their blogs
or running their websites or promoting
their products you have lamp which
stands for Linux Apache MySQL and PHP
and lamp stack consists of Linux Apache
HTTP server MySQL and PHP and is used to
host websites and web
applications you also have your option
of building your own website so you can
develop website or web application with
your own code directly on compute engine
now let's look at a use case and
understand what happened here when we
talk about Lush so Lush was founded in
1995 it's you might have seen this brand
somewhere in the streets it is a global
Cosmetics retailer headquartered in UK
it sells a diverse range of fresh
handmade products Lush had become a
global brand with over 900 13 stores in
49 countries so the challenges which
were faced here was traffic on boxing
day caused website crash for almost 18
hours and this is something which had a
devastating effect on their business the
previous platform had no scalability
option what was the solution the
movement of website during the peak time
was easy due to flexibility of gcp
platform with rapid VM deployment on
Google compute engine the environment
were monitored and destroyed in minutes
so the team could test and deploy at
speed by using go Cloud SQL Lush took
complete control of its infrastructure
and optimize its systems for Effective
scaling overall the platform resulted in
lower cost that led to a bright future
for Lush Cosmetics now what was the
result of all this the availability
during Peak loads was improved because
of Google compute engines Auto scaling
feature the infrastructure hosting costs
were reduced by 40% streamline data
center usage from 5 to 3 with Google's
highquality private Network really
benefited Lush and it provided a
flexible architecture and scalability
for future business growth now what we
have seen here is that your Google cloud
and its web hosting basically offers
users to run their websites or use a web
hosting solution that can benefit in
more than one way the simplest approach
could be seen is by clicking and setting
up a VM instance by going to your
console for example if we go in to the
Google Cloud platform clicking on
console and here the easiest way I could
test it is by going to my compute engine
VM instances and here I can spin up an
instance I can click on create now in my
previous sessions I have also explained
about how you could create a template
and run an instance from that we can
also click on new VM instance let's call
it new instance I will choose a region
for example Frankfurt I will let it be
general purpose machines let this
machine be one virtual CPU core and 3.75
GB Ram if I'm looking for a heavier
website which might have more users
logging in and so on then I can choose a
higher configuration machine here we
have the option to choose our
distribution so for example I can choose
u 2 and then I can choose a distribution
version so let it be
16.04 we can choose the dis size to be
20 GB and we can use ssds or hdds so as
of now it is standard persistent dis
that is sdd and that should be enough
let's click on select here I will say
allow default access I would say allow
HTTP and
https so that if I have a website
content hosted on this machine I can
access it over HTTP now here you have
management options for your instance you
have security option which basically
allows you to provide a public key if
you are interested in using an external
SSH client to connect now I have used
puty gen and I have already created a
private key which is here I have also
converted that as a pem file and anytime
if I would want to use this key all I
need to do is click on puty gen where I
had earlier created this PPK file now I
can just do a load and I can choose the
key which I have here and I can give the
pass phas click on okay and that shows
you the public key let's copy the public
key from here let's go into our instance
and I can give this here that resolves
the name so I have the private key saved
on my machine and public key which will
be pushed into the machine I can click
on Create and that should create my
instance to which you can connect using
SSH from the console itself or using a
external client such as puty which will
then need the public IP of this instance
the PPK file what we have and you can
connect to this instance what I can also
do is I can just to a simple SSH from
here and that will basically allow me to
connect to the instance what we also
need to remember is each instance what
we create in compute is also having some
default firewall rules now I have
connected to my instance I can click on
Pudo Su I can log in as root and here if
I would want I can install a particular
service so let's say Apache uh let's say
apt get install and then I can say
Apache 2 or
httpd that is basically to host your web
application so I'm installing the
service and here I can check if the
service is running by doing a service
httpd status or I can say service Apache
2 status which says it is already
running that means the Apache web server
page will be accessible from HTTP
provided my firewall r R allow that now
before we look into this we can also for
our instance look at the firewall rules
so here you have Network details now
since we created an instance by default
Google has created some firewall rules
which allow default HTTP
https icmp your default internal access
RDP and SSH access and here it says
these Ingress rules which allow incoming
traffic are allowed from anywhere we can
customize that as specific IP addresses
we can also look at egress which is
basically outgoing traffic and this is
again saying my machine can connect to
the external World in different ways
using different protocols so you can
customize these firewall rules as of now
I'm going to let it be default now we
connected to our instance from the
browser and we were basically checking
how you can use this browser by clicking
on this now what I can also do is here
I'm logged into the instance my Apache
server is running so the best way to
check if the Apache web server is
accessible via HTTP all I need is my
public IP so let's copy this let's go
here and I will say
HTTP SL slash just give your public IP
and that shows your Apache to web server
page that means the Apache service has
already been run now here it tells if
you would want to host a particular page
what you will have to do is as it says
here it is based on equivalent page on
dbn from which to Apache packaging is
derived if you can read this page it
means Apache HTTP server is installed at
this site is working properly now you
can replace this file located at VAR www
HTM ml index.html before continuing to
operate your HTTP server so this is
where you can change the particular page
and you will be able to host your
website on this particular E2 instance
what we can do is we can check this so
we can go into the browser and we can
look in VAR
www and that has an HTML folder look
into this and as of now you have a index
. HTML and that basically is the page
what we are seeing now I can click on
this one and I can see I have a small
HTML page which is basically showing me
what we are seeing on our web server
what I can also do is for now I can test
it out and I can put in a different HTML
page and see how that works so we had
basically the page here in VAR ww W and
then we had the HTML folder and in HTML
folder what I had was this index file so
as of now I just moved it and I put it
in a different location so if I look in
my home
hdu
index.html that shows me the complete
HTML page what we were seeing on our web
server and here it shows you what this
page would display if you run it on your
HT PTP it says Apache to window default
page it shows it works it shows the
content and so on so for just testing I
moved this page out from this location
and what I did was I added a different
page here so that page if you look in
HTML and then look in my page. HTML
section I've just added some basic
details of creating HTML I'm saying body
I'm using Mari and then I'm closing this
with HTML tag now this is a simple HTML
page which I created and now what I did
was once I've done this I basically did
a service Apache restart so once you do
that it will take up your new page and
once you have done that now you can
access that by going to your
HTTP given your details and then
basically give your public IP which we
can get from
here and just paste it here now hit on
this so that shows me there is a my
page. HTML I can click on this and that
basically shows the symbol page which I
created so as of now this is my web page
which I have created and this is hosted
on my compute instance now obviously we
can create a more complex website backed
up by a database
use PHP use MySQL to store the data and
then host your website on a Google Cloud
platform service such as compute where
your actual code is running so we can
learn about your web hosting on compute
instances in further
sessions are you in the analytic space
Have you ever wondered how data
processing in the cloud is changing the
Analytics space if the answer is yes
this is the course for you all major
corporations are moving data
infrastructure and Computing to the
cloud to optimize costs to make
analyzing data seamless technology
leaders like Google and Amazon are
investing heavily in SAS tools on the
cloud Google is a Pioneer in this space
the Google big cloud data and machine
learning platform provides Cloud
databases managed Hadoop and Spark
services with tools like data flow and
data proc the platform allows for highly
scalable and reliable data processing
the data lab big query and Cloud machine
learning features make it a great choice
for business intelligence large scale
analytics and machine
learning its best-in-class performance
and low cost makes Google Cloud popular
and sought-after
Technology giants like Spotify and apple
have have implemented the Google Cloud
platform at their organizations and
healthc care and consumer goods leaders
like Phillips and Coca-Cola are
migrating to Google Cloud for their data
analytics needs a Google data engineer
with expertise in Google Cloud machine
learning and big query earns
$102,000 per year on average and the
demand for Google data engineer
certifications has never been HED simply
learns Google Cloud platform big data
and machine learning fundamentals or cpb
100 course offers a thorough overview of
the Google Cloud platform covering its
data processing capabilities with
various use case studies it's the
perfect course for data analysts
business analyst and data scientists
with real world experience in querying
ETL data modeling or machine learning it
decision makers evaluating the Google
Cloud platform have also found the
training very useful the course will
cover everything you need to know about
the Google Cloud platform and includes 8
hours of instructor-led training modules
on big data and machine learning with
the Google
Cloud hi my name is Randolph kale and
I'm the co-author of the Google Cloud
platform certification courses for
Google I'm certified on the Google Cloud
platform an authorized Google instructor
and the course adviser at simply learn I
have over 40 years experience in the
industry spanning different roles from
development managing Cloud
infrastructure to product management
I've partnered with simply learn to
ensure that you have the best
opportunity to become certified in
various Google Cloud platform
Technologies gain hands-on experience on
the cloud and make you job ready before
we discuss the course and the reasons it
will help you let me first introduce you
to Google Cloud platform when you use
the Google Cloud platform you are
empowered to build build test and deploy
applications at Google
scale the move to the cloud is happening
today there is a broad industry adoption
when I teach classes I see the pace
accelerating across all companies Forbes
projects a 19% growth rate to $140
billion US on cloud services by
2019 how can you move to the cloud how
can you make a career in this fast
growing part of the industry your first
step is establishing your credentials in
the Google Cloud platform domain and you
can do that by getting certified the
Google Cloud platform fundamentals
course introduces you to the Google
Cloud platform and shows you how you can
incorporate cloud-based Solutions into
your business strategies the course is
intended for solution developers system
operation professionals and solution
Architects planning to deploy
applications and create application
environments on the Google Cloud
platform it is also appropriate for
executives and business decision makers
ERS evaluating the potential of Google
Cloud platform to address their business
needs completing this course will give
you the skills and the confidence to
take full advantage of the Google Cloud
platform
ecosystem simply learn offers you
extensive training to help you
understand the platform you get 8 hours
of interactive instructor-led live
online sessions along with a course you
receive a free trial account with $300
credit toward the use of Google Cloud
platform for 60 days
the instructors are Google authorized
trainers the content is engaging and all
the topics are very well explained with
simply learn you'll be enrolling for the
online classroom flexi pass which gives
you the flexibility to attend any of the
weekday and weekend batches according to
your convenience another thing that's
impressive is the proactive teaching
assistance where experts resolve all
your course related project related or
technical questions while pursuing the
course
so if you're looking for the training
and guidance you need to have a deeper
understanding about Google Cloud
platform products and services this is
the best course for you with a course
material labs and authorized instructors
with extensive experience I don't think
you'll need to go anywhere else take
charge of your career sign up for simply
learn CP 100a training all the best to
you and with that we have come to the
end of this video on Google Cloud
in-depth tutorial 2022 I hope you found
it useful and entertaining please ask
away any questions you have concerning
the topics covered in this video in the
comment section below our experts will
assist you in the addressing your
problems thank you for watching stay
safe and keep
learning hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learn YouTube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos to nerd up and get certified
click here
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e e
