everyone it seems is doing agile
developments but the truth is that many
organizations don't have a firm grasp on
the process of agile software
development even if you think you're
doing agile development you may not be
doing agile development is a lot like
running a restaurant everyone has their
own specific tasks but they have to work
together so all the pieces come together
at the right time and they have to be
able to make all sorts of meals based on
whatever customers happen to want each
day the team is only successful when the
product is satisfactorily delivered to
the customer the process in a restaurant
starts with the food orders the server
collects the orders on tickets that the
kitchen then works through in software
development business units ask for the
products they want developed providing
their user stories and requirements in
other words their order tickets the
agile team has to take all those tickets
and figure out how to make all the
products so that they all get delivered
at the right time to the various
business teams that's called the Kanban
process based on the Japanese word
Kanban for the tickets to used in
project planning the scrum master in
consultation with the product owner and
development team organizes the tickets
into groups that can be tackled at once
the groups are then placed in order so
the first things that need to get done
get done first and so on in a restaurant
tickets are organized for similar
reasons so the person preparing the
ingredients knows what to prepare in
time for the chef making the specific
dish and so the whole meal comes
together at the right time in agile
development these groups are called
sprints typically a two-week period
where the various developers work on
their tickets so they're done in time
for the next sprint in a restaurant the
executive chef shows the cooking team
everything that needs to be done for
this set of orders the cooks commit to
what dishes they will work on in agile
development the same process occurs in
what is called the scrum process
in agile development teams developers
likewise commit for the code they will
deliver for the current sprints the
cooks make the food adjusting the
seasoning and methods as needed based on
the ingredients they have and any issues
that come up while cooking to deliver
the meal the customer expects as well as
from any feedback from the waitstaff and
customers agile development works the
same way developers implement what they
committed to making adjustments as they
go to deliver the desired result based
on feedback from stakeholders the
product manager and their own insights a
restaurants cooks are always looking to
make the food better and the preparation
process better as they cook they discuss
and record where they need to make
improvements with the ingredients or
cooking process then make adjustments in
their future work agile development
teams do the same thing giving each
other feedback during the development
work as well as at the end of each
sprint in what is called a retrospective
at a restaurant when a batch of orders
is done the next batch starts up
following the same process this
continues until service is completed in
agile development the Sprint's continue
until the product is delivered when that
happens the team starts over again on a
new product in a restaurant consistency
is important for every item on the menu
it's almost an assembly line for food to
accomplish that the executive chef works
out the recipes and then teaches them to
the cooks and sous chefs typically prep
cooks also cut up all the vegetables and
other ingredients in advance to precise
specifications so they're ready to use
when the cook needs them in agile
development some of the work can be
automated such as code management and
automated testing likewise
continuous integration ensures all the
ingredients are prepared and then
assembled properly to form the item
continuous delivery lets you deliver
code within each sprint not wait until
the end of each sprint that gets the
software to the business faster though
in smaller chunks it's like a dim sum or
tapas restaurant that lets
order different bites of food throughout
the meal delivering each one ready
rather than delivering the whole meal
all at once
