hello everyone thanks for joining the
session
so as all of you know this is conducted
by figurative on top of blockchain and
its application so as part of this
agenda we'll be discussing about
blockchain what are the different
applications of blockchain what is the
technology stack we have on blockchain
and we'll also take an example of how do
we
use or what are the different cases that
we we use a hands-on on this part okay
so now let's talk about this blockchain
so let's try to talk about what is a
blockchain so blockchain is a technology
which is introduced
basically by
the technology called bitcoin so where
people will end up with creating the
number of blocks and it will change
which means every block each and every
block will be attached to each and every
block which is next to it so unless
otherwise you cannot
if your first block is starting and your
your block will continue to grow and you
know that what is the start of it what
is the end of that which means every
block will contain the information of
start of the block and end of the block
so which means in that case if you are
supposed to know what is the entire
blockchain you are supposed to hack the
entire blockchain system and which is
practically not possible by anybody so
that's where that's what we typically
call it as a blockchain technology and
it's a concept which can be implemented
by any language which means it's not a
language barrier or anything you can use
any technology or any programming
language to implement it and it is
something which is mostly preferred
implement some programming that can help
you to create a blockchains okay so in
any blockchain so you'll end up with
having all the transactions log
including the information based on the
date and time and everything so that
each and every transaction can be
visible and you'll be able to verify
whenever you wanted to and there will be
something called endnote work and not
network won't full copy of the block
change and you'll end up with having
each node will contain the network of a
full copy of the blockchain so that uh
even if someone tried to hack it and you
because of the reason that it has to
hold the entire full blockchain and one
will be done
so now there are different types of
technologies in the blockchain itself
you are supposed to have different types
of processes which are enabled which
means your transactions will be verified
by the venus which means power is
actually going to mine your or start
mining your transactions or which are
present and it will be verified by each
and every miner so that once each and
every miner confirms that okay this is
the right block that we're trying to add
that we're trying to achieve and that's
when it will be verified and if at all
there is any attempt to which someone is
trying to make a corruption or anything
obviously you may not be able to go and
get all the information for all the
blocks and obviously it will start
trading so that nobody will be able to
add or either break anything as part of
the chain because any transaction can be
enabled only by verifying all the
transactions as part of the check right
so uh now uh what are the different
applications which are implemented using
these blockchains and there are a lot of
apple applications especially the api uh
different different apis especially if
you take a look at uh how the
transactions are being happening or how
these organizations are making a lot of
transactions to make sure that nobody
will hack it mostly or nobody will will
block them unnecessarily and you will
end up with using all these applications
simply using these apis
and uh if
at all there is a
decentralized application especially
there is a decentralized situation the
major advantage is so it's not something
that somebody can go and uh block it or
hack it because it's not something that
a particular private person or regular
organization will want to own it and it
is something which will be owned by the
anti-network of the people so that it is
not something that is possible for
anyone to shut it down or go to go and
start controlling it unless otherwise if
everybody started not to use it so
that's what we typically call as
decentralization so that's where there
is no regularization regulations that
people can transfer so it's on the
technology stack wise and you'll end up
with having a different technologies and
we have different different technologies
like javascript or any kind of
technology that you can use which can
integrate with your blockchain
technology and with your
applications enough for doing this
and anatomy of this so where you'll end
up with having marketing agreement and
there is no need of a broker or any
lawyer so you can just structure
considering that you have a block which
is associated with you you can continue
to use it and there is no documentation
everything which is required you can
continue to warn
which is available which is actually
part of your blockchain and you can
complete it and you can continue to take
your backup and you can also continue to
have duplicates also but only thing is
that once you you cannot create a new
one as part of it and the accuracy is
going to be 100 and it cannot be avoided
it's something because of anywhere
so and you'll also have a concept called
block verify so what is the verify means
audible by
counterfeits or are there no duplicates
or company verify or global solutions
there are different types of
verifications which are available and
which are differently used by different
different technologies which can help
you to build different different um type
of applications so counterfeit boots or
diversified products or the stolen
merchandise or the foreign transactions
can be can continue to be verified as
part of their blockchain so that these
kind of activities can be controlled
very well
and of course as i said there are
different type of applications which are
built using this and one of the example
is ripple which is one of the coin which
is created uh one of the digital
currency i mean so the ripple network is
something which is instrumental payment
for the providers such as bankers or
money solutions which have been given uh
it is unreliable so uh which means that
okay whatever the people who want to use
it
one of the blockchain one of the digital
currency which is created it's
inexpensive it's very expensive and it's
also slow because of the reason that it
is slow in terms of processing and
anything and it may not be that easy for
people to hack because you may have to
verify all the transactions and that's
where you'll have access to transactions
which are being promised by the network
will be the network will be and you'll
end up with having the access faster
access to it and then you'll be able to
access you'll be able to make
transactions very faster and it is also
highly reliable and lower cost and it
will take all the disadvantages of
available off on top of it and it's
going to you end up with having the
transactions over ripple network which
promises that okay you can achieve all
these accesses and faster process and
the lower cost accuracy so likewise
there are a different type of
applications like scotch and you can
also continue to use uh different
different ways of dealing with them
right you'll have other advantages of
having the transactions completely
cheaper and then after we maintain
private and we have a faster face which
means everything the transactions can be
verified very faster
and you can primarily use them for as
part of your encryption and in case if
you want to start an information which
can which nobody can recollect it once
you start it i can continue to use them
and you'll also have audits which means
that we can continue to have continuous
auditing to make sure that the things
are working and is also highly
distributed which means and when it's a
distributed unit obviously you can
continue to get a factor in extreme
so likewise we have a few other concepts
like auger or other things you can kind
of use it and they have their own
advantages like our weather prediction
which typically can be used for
political forecasting and even heading a
company forecasting so likewise these
kind of applications can be used uh
these are the examples of the old
applications that are being used
okay so what are the things that you'll
end up with learning when you're going
through the recovery banner page what
are the themes that you will end up with
so you will have start with origin of
working with the blockchain and you will
attend you can learn about
cryptocurrency and blockchain
applications and you have a hands-on in
each and every part as you can see and
then you will understand about what is
the bitcoin platform how exactly the
bitcoin platform is built and you'll
also start looking at what is the
bitcoin mining how do we start with
bitcoin and i think whatever you'll
understand the basics of it and then you
the very famous and very much widely
used you know blockchain concept uh of
this currency
and you'll continue to learn about
ethereum and how the basic scholarship
will be implemented in the theory and
what are the advantages of it how to
implement it using a hands-on experience
and what are the advantages of it okay
so and then you will continue to using
tuple and this is one of the handsome
that you're thinking
that can help us to implement one of the
employees
and as part of it you'll end up with
hyperledger concepts as part of the
overall session you'll end up with
learning all these concepts along with
the hearts along with the hands-on
sessions and this is the entire course
part of the entire roadway roadmap that
you're going to learn as part of your
sessions okay so uh once you continue
continuing with that and that's where we
will continue to become master
understood
okay so that's the overall process and
you'll also have multiple examples of um
atlanta which you have zero service
charge decentralized for or restrictions
or anything
okay so that's what you have so these
are the different different activities
that you'll end up with learning as part
of your usual um
okay yeah thank you very much now
limitless for your blockchain
you
