[Music]
all attendees and welcome to another
glorious day of learning by ed Eureka it
is so good to see that so many of you
are keeping up with the trends of
technology today my name is Adan and
after our previous sessions on the
Internet of Things I thought it'd be
only fair to talk about the devices that
enable the inner of things to sense and
respond using the powers of computing to
autonomously come up with the best
solutions for any industry today so let
us dig deeper into these devices that
mark the beginning of every IOT
ecosystem and look at the best ones in
use today in different domains but
before we start though let me quickly
run you along the outlines of today's
session so that you have a clear idea on
the topic that I'd be covering so first
I'll be telling you how you can identify
any object to be an IOT device then I'll
tell you what they can do for you and
site some of the major use cases in it
and then I'll tell you how I ot devices
are shaping the entire world and code
some leading examples and then I'll tell
you how secure is a device in IOT and
finally I'll be telling you all the
important things that you need to know
to build an IOT device so without
putting it off any further let us begin
our session today now these devices that
play the role of things in IOT are
what's make the smartest systems
possible today we just a smart appliance
or an entire smart city it could be
complete computing devices design
keeping the portability in mind or tiny
electronic components operating on
minimal device software for data
transfer and connectivity without any
computing abilities at all and there are
also objects that are not made up of any
electronic hardware at all and can still
become the things in IOT by having these
smart things attached to them in some or
the other way so what I'm basically
saying is that even we humans can become
a thing in the Internet of Things but
again that is a contextual term and
you'll understand why as we move on with
the session today so for now we can just
say that any device however puny or
powerless with the ability to receive or
send data allowing it to communicate
over networks can be called a thing or
an IOT device also it should be serving
a purpose like either collecting some
information or delivering some outcome
now that is the least any IOT enabled
device or thing in IOT will require
today even though the bigger devices
have diverse features and can be more
powerful it is the miniaturizing of
coming
hardware that has truly given the
internet-of-things its edge in the
market today it has made it possible for
these IOT devices to even function at
microscopic levels in the remotest
corners of our world and has also bought
in focus on more target oriented
features specific to their goals plus
with devices running on incredibly low
power levels and operating with such
minimal resources the things in IOT come
with the promise of implementing
solutions in the most cost effective way
possible without compromising on the
system's accuracy this is because are
the smallest levels these things are
embedded with just enough technology for
them to communicate over the internet
and other networks to get the data
analyzed stored and processed over that
network or over the cloud rather than
physically housing all those
technologies on themselves also such low
powered levels are perfect for the
little chips sensors and other
low-energy components that these devices
used for the operation but like I said
they're substantially equipped to
connect wirelessly for exchanging data
and performing actions based on them
also such low energy modes of
connectivity make it easy for these
things to operate just about anywhere
while letting us control and monitor
them remotely for almost any part of the
world so it is as if the British
technology pioneer Kevin Ashton who
coined the phrase integral of things
back in the 1999 somehow knew of these
potentials that IOT brings out in
devices today ok I can see that somebody
has a question
so Thomas wants to know if it is only
these small devices that are a part of
IOT or even the larger devices can be
called things well Thomas any device
that has the ability to connect to
networks and can solve a purpose like
performing some operation or collecting
data can be called a thing in IOT
although in turn of thing aims to be
available for even the smallest devices
so I hope that answers your question so
let us move on
[Music]
let us see what things can do for you so
one of the most popular implementation
of these things and their applications
have been in the sector of home
automation today the use of Internet of
Things in this industry has got the
world closer to achieving a dream home
powered by the smartest systems using
these IOT devices and these systems have
been built such that all its devices can
inter communicate to allow owners a
customized access to all aspects of your
home like your lights your logs or the
inside environment or security cameras
or even your total energy consumption
with the brand specific IOT platforms
and clouds behind them these IOT devices
are now capable of exhibiting ambient
intelligence and also stay connected to
the Internet for driving real-time
operations so let us get into some
examples of IOT devices using more smart
homes today and we must begin with the
tunable smart lighting systems like
Philips hue smart home lighting or the
tp-link multicolor smart Wi-Fi that can
be easily controlled using your smart
phones with the option of creating
custom lighting automations from
anywhere in the world by just being
connected to the internet with smart
lights like these you could turn them on
or off any time and tune the color and
the brightness of lights in your homes
remotely no matter wherever you are
moving on did you know that locks and
keys are getting old fashioned nowadays
for all job smart locks are a part of
almost every smart home today and the
August smart lock third generation is
one of the newest and the hottest phones
on the market today what makes it stand
out among its peers is that it comes
with bluetooth support so that you won't
need to worry even if your internet is
down somehow with a device like this
then attaches to your existing deadbolts
you'll always know if your door is
completely closed and alone with its
door Sense technology it will even
remind you to lock your doors when
you're leaving or tell you if they were
properly closed or not based on the
location of your phone you can even
create secure virtual or temporary keys
for your neighbors and guess just in
case now the next IOT device is the Nest
Learning Thermostat
it is one of the best examples of an IOT
device today as a part of your home
automation system this intelligent
device learns your schedules and
preferences over the first couple of
weeks to smarten the cooling and heating
systems in your home and then regulate
your home temperature automatically to
save your electricity by 20% among a ton
of other features
so to reduce your energy bills it uses
sensors and your phone's location to
realize the weather the time or the
environment inside and when nobody's
home it will shift into energy-saving
mode apart from the thermostat nest also
provides smart cameras with smoke and
carbon monoxide alarms to better manage
your home's atmosphere and its security
plus it lets you manage and monitor each
of them through its dedicated app or
even build your old revenue channels
upon them there is also one more device
that I think is worth the mention in the
home automation systems of today it's
mostly just a doorbell for your front
doors only a lot smarter the video
doorbells by ring is a modest name for
all the things that it can do it's like
you're always home as it lets you answer
your door from just about anywhere it
will in fact even a lot U of motion
within 30 feet of your door and stream
its life footage onto your phone and if
somebody rings a bell you can let them
know that you not home and even have a
word with them with its night vision
the wide-angle high-definition
recordings get simultaneously saved work
loud for you use anytime now before I
tell you what else i Ã´d devices can do
for you
virtual or home assistants like the
Amazon Alexa the Google assistant CD and
G book are also a trending application
of the Internet of Things and have made
it big in the home automation systems of
today now other than making your home
smart IOT devices are also capable of
intelligently tracking your health and
fitness and as far as Fitness goes the
Fitbit tracker or the Apple watch and
other such smartwatches have been a
revolutionary success and along with
your fitness aspects they also solve
your day-to-day healthcare needs like
checking your heart rate and
perspiration levels and tracking your
body temperature to predict a cold or a
flu on the way and you'll be amazed to
know how the other IOT devices are
saving more lives and making health care
better like the Philip Health Care's
medication dispensing service or the
hero smart pills dispenser are the most
successful use cases today and exemplify
the potential of IOT in the healthcare
sector it is the perfect reminder for
your medications and is a convenient
measure for the elderly and the sick
alike the option to remotely manage it
with your smartphone you could also
monitor the medication of your near and
dear ones and be notified upon running
low on any medication at all plus you
could also get info on the right
medication
for common health hazards and now with
how integral smartphones and internet
have become in our lives
health and fitness solutions using IOT
will only get more and more prominent in
the recent years to come
[Music]
so apart from the personal benefits that
you can get as a consumer or a user IOT
also aims to impact the greater good the
talk of smart cities is prevalent these
days while the waste management system
is more efficient pollution in the
environment is checked and even the
outer lighting and traffic signals are
equipped with motion sensors to ensure
energy conservation by turning on only
upon detecting traffic updates and its
route or upon sensing pedestrians and
vehicles nearby now let us look at some
of the other sectors of service and
civic amenities that these IOT devices
are powering to up the efficiencies of
our world today one of the most visible
smart systems in place is in the domain
of Transport and automotive today and
along with more and more connected car
platforms today there has also been a
lot of hype around smart incent driving
vehicles hitting the lines of transport
very soon plus with the maps providing
real-time Intel and the modern vehicles
housing numerous sensors in them you
could always tell which way to go or
what parts need to be looked at like say
tracking the fuel consumption altitude
and maintenance issues of flights in
real time without waiting for it to land
every time can help in anticipating
problems to schedule maintenance prior
to its arrival
so that delays and mishaps are minimized
in the aviation industry another major
area of application for IOT devices is
in the field of Agriculture a sector
that is often neglected despite its
utmost importance can now be brought up
to speed with IOT with several cheap and
minimal sensors that monitor the best
climate and soil quality for the right
kind of crops or other smart devices
that ensure the efficiency of automated
irrigation systems even the gardens in
your home or the trees in smart cities
or even the plant life and vegetation in
the agroforestry or wildlife habitats
could be kept in check the most
innovative IOT devices today include the
smart watering system blossom which can
create optimal watering schedules for
all the plants in your home based on
real-time weather data and focus and
will regulate all your sprinkles
accordingly and allows you complete
control over them through Bluetooth or
the internet and also the clean gross
carbon nanotube Pro
is one of the best IOT devices for
farmers and gardeners all around the
world today with sensors to monitor the
intake of nutrients in the crops to
better manage farming resources and
improve the quality of their fields
farmers can now alter the maturity rate
and the color of crops for better yields
and faster rates of production now it
might be a little ironical of me to talk
about one of the very first industries
to be made smart on such a late note in
today's session but I really just wanted
to save the best for last and believe me
the sector of retail and logistics is
where the internals thinks promises the
most astounding results with IOT devices
already being extensively used in
shopping restaurants hospitality
industries and many other businesses to
control the supply chain effectively and
obtain valuable insights based on them
and manage their logical or
merchandising expenses in the best
possible ways now the cue hop is one of
the leading examples of internal things
being used in the retail today typically
designed to bring in seamless autonomous
checkout technologies to all retail
verticals by digitizing the checkouts
through RFID tags that only unlock after
its payment is processed the sole
purpose behind it was to allow users to
self checkout in stores although it is
mainly used for security reasons today
to inhibit petty thefts in stores but
guess what
that was before the inception of Amazon
go earlier this year now the technology
inside this convenience store will
really seem like it was pulled out from
the future somewhere although it is so
new that there are only three locations
with this futuristic store so far so
pretty and managed by the online
retailer Amazon these stores can give
you a shopping experience unlike any
you've ever had before with the idea
essentially being grab-and-go these
stores will just need your Amazon go
apps for you to enter and then employees
computer vision machine learning and
sensor fusion to automatically add items
that you pick instantly on to your
virtual cart and we'll also remove them
off just as promptly if you keep them
back now once you grab all the things on
your shopping list and are ready to exit
all you need to do is just walk right
out of the store yes no more lining up
in busy queues of the usually limited
checkout counters to wait your turn for
the purchase you can exit the store
without even having to pull out any cash
or a card and you will find the amount
for all the things that you walk out
with
simultaneously from the balance in your
Amazon account such a smart system could
also check the inventory regularly to
notify retailers on the need for
restocking and even helps to manage the
supply chain and a better way now there
are also other promising areas in
logistic that IOT devices have started
to impact like in the case of shipping
cargo or fleet management smart
Bluetooth low-energy tags are attached
to the items being moved for remotely
tracking their exact locations speed of
transport and storage conditions for
instance the things dot IO is a simple
IOT platform that provides a dedicated
cloud-based dashboard for better
logistics by enabling access to
real-time and reliable inputs from its
connected smart sensors and parent
location trackers irrespective or
wherever they might be so all the use
cases and the respective IOT devices or
things we just went over are only a
select few out of the countless
applications of the internal things that
can drive almost any sector today and
these IOT devices could be things
themselves or even attached to someone
or something to make it a thing in IOT
like even a person with a heart rate
monitor could be your thing in IOT as it
connects and provides information they
can act as inputs to other smart systems
to operate on so the baseline for
anything to become an IOT device could
be laid out as any object with a unique
IP address for communication over
networks and the ability to gather and
transmit data or receive data and
perform tasks based on it and the Ameri
technology in these devices are what
interact with either the internal States
or the external environment to capture
all data and drive decisions made upon
them
[Music]
now with the internet-of-things being
such a large community of different
devices the challenges of IOT devices
mainly start with communication as the
protocols and languages used by each of
them vary hugely due to the lack of
common standards for all of them here
and this lack of a uniform and secure
standard across all IOT devices uses
great security risks making them highly
unreliable on most important operations
and Inter operations today also without
customers being assured of the privacy
and security of their data there is just
no reason for them to risk using or
adopting such insecure solutions but do
you really understand what the role of
security in IOT devices is today well
let me tell you about a major cyber
attack that happened back in October of
2016 a large distributed
denial-of-service attack dubbed Mirai
affected DNS servers on the east coast
of the United States which disrupted
services all across the world upon
further investigations this issue was
tracked back to the hackers that
infiltrated smart networks through the
IOT devices being used in them like the
routers or the camera so that brings
about the situation wherein our devices
and data are all remotely connected and
stored upon these networks and its
security gets compromised
we might even not know it over the first
few days or weeks and it might be just
too late by the time we do realize
another way in for these hackers were
undoubtably a result of poor practice at
some end like say the use of default
passwords rather than changing them
hence the adoption of better practices
and the reinforcement of proper
authentication networks segmentations
encryption and cryptography can still
make the things and its systems quite
secure given that we start making sure
of building them up securely from our
end as well plus the issue of overall
connectivity is also a feat that our
world is still striving to achieve but
hasn't been able to accomplish it
[Music]
that brings us to the last topic for
today
so let me tell you the important things
that you should know to build an IOT
device so building an IOT project or
device or solution must be done thinking
about the relevant purposes that it
concerns and the ways in which they can
be prepared to work for at least the
next couple of decades along with the
option and space for quick
improvisations and upgrades and just
like we saw in all our examples today
you must have understood the two
important categories that IOT devices
are mainly made up of the first is the
hardware aspect and the underlying rule
is to aggregate the hardware in the most
minimal way you can without compromising
on the primary features that you want
your device to use now these features
are mostly due to Bluetooth Low Energy
sensors or beacons connected to the
Internet or a customized product with
probably a combination of these on a
circuit board made up of a semiconductor
like Silicon and may also house or the
components like transistors resistors
receivers transmitters actuators an
integrated circuit or a microchip
so most devices like a smartphone or a
result of such combinations on a little
more complex level with proper casing
and with the second most important
aspect of these devices so the second
important category in IOT devices is the
software aspect on the device level the
size of your software would depend on
how minimal or bulky your device is and
what are the components that your
housing on it on the most basic note the
device software only needs to be enough
for handling the operation of your
device driving components to collect
data and converting them into
transmissible form connecting to
networks driving the transmitter to send
data and the receiver to receive data to
and from the network and converting it
to the machine understandable form for
driving components to perform some task
or display some outcomes based on the
received instructions now all this will
require very minimal
software unlike the software on your
phones that come with entire mobile
operating systems all the other
important software for intelligence and
smartness in these devices will be
provided by the underlying cloud
infrastructure and even by the mobile
apps or web dash boots the software
aspect of IOT devices is in fact what
controls the hardware aspects to sense
some information or perform an
instruction while both aspects are the
most into
parts of an IOT device you might also
need to overcome a few more hurdles
before you I Oh TA device is truly ready
to implement smart solutions and power
smart systems of our oil today these
hurdles could be connectivity issues or
compatibility problems or security and
privacy concerns but don't let the
obstacles dishearten you instead just
consult people with knowledge on the
same for any and all questions that you
have or just post it in the comment
sections below and I'll get you all the
help that I possibly can so that will be
all for today
I hope to see you all again until then
happy learning and Cheers
I hope you have enjoyed listening to
this video please be kind enough to like
it and you can comment any of your
doubts and queries and we will reply
them at the earliest do look out for
more videos in our playlist and
subscribe to any Rekha channel to learn
more happy learning
