welcome to the world of big data in
today's digital Age We generate massive
amounts of data every second but what do
you do with that information
how can you harness its potential and
extract valuable insights that's where
the big data tools come into the play
these powerful tools are designed to
handle the enormous volume velocity and
variety of data that surrounds us they
provide the infrastructure Frameworks
and capabilities needed to process
analyze and derive meaningful Knowledge
from these vast data sets in this
tutorial we will explore the top 10 big
data tools that have revolutionized how
we approach data analytics and
processing these tools have become the
backbone of modern data driven
organizations enabling them to unlock
hidden patterns make informed decisions
and gain a Competitive Edge
that's it if you are an aspiring data
engineer looking for online training and
certifications from the prestigious
universities and in collaboration with
leading industry experts then search no
more simply learns postgraduate program
in data engineering from Priority
University in collaboration with IBM
should be your right choice for more
details on this course use the link in
the description box below with that in
mind here's the list of the top 10 big
data tools that are commonly used in the
industry which you need to know we will
get started with the first one that is
Apache Hadoop
Apache Hadoop is a powerful open source
framework that revolutionized big data
processing it enables the distributed
processing of vast data sets across
clusters of computers providing
scalability for tolerance and cost
effectiveness hadoop's core components
Hadoop distributed file system and
mapreduce allow data to be stored and
processed in pal making it ideal for
large-scale data analytics with Hadoop
organizations can effortlessly store
manage and analyze structured and
unstructured data unlocking valuable
insights its ecosystem of tools and
Technologies has made it a corner store
in the Big Data landscape empowering
businesses to tackle complex data
challenges and drive data-driven
decision making the second one in the
list is Apache spark Apache spark is a
lightning fast and versatile open source
framework for big data processing and
analytics it provides an in-memory
Computing engine that accelerates data
processing making it ideal for real-time
analytics machine learning and iterative
algorithms Spark's Rich set of API
supports various programming languages
allowing developers to work with ease it
offers modules for streaming SQL machine
learning and graph processing making it
a comprehensive tool for diverse data
tasks with its ability to handle
large-scale data processing spark has
become a popular choice for
organizations looking to extract
valuable insights from their big data
quickly and efficiently
third one on the list is Apache Kafka
Apache Kafka is a distributed streaming
platform that has gained immense
popularity for real-time data streaming
and processing it provides a fault all
and scalable and high throughput
messaging system that enables the
building of real-time data pipelines and
applications kafka's unique design
allows you to handle High volumes of
data and seamlessly integrate with
various data sources and syncs it
follows a published subscribe model
where producers publish messages to
topics and consumer subscribe to those
topics to receive and process the
messages in real time kafka's
versatility and reliability make it a
crucial tool for data ingestion stream
processing and event-driven
architectures in modern data driven
organizations
fourth one on the list is Apache hype
Apache hype is a data warehousing
infrastructure built on top of Hadoop
designed to simplify data analysis and
query it provides a SQL like interface
allowing users to write queries and
analyze data stored in hadoop's
distributed file system Hive translates
queries into mapreduce shops and making
it easy for analysts and data scientists
to work with big data without writing
complex mapreduce code it supports
various data formats partitioning and
schema Evolution Hive is particularly
useful for batch processing and ad-hoc
queries enabling users to extract
insights and perform data exploration
efficiently it plays a crucial role in
enabling data preventation making in
organizations dealing with large volumes
of data first one on the list is Apache
pink
apply shipping is a high level scripting
platform that simplifies large-scale
data analysis on Hadoop it provides a
programming language called Pig Latin
which abstracts the complexities of
writing mapreduce jobs with Big users
can express data Transformations and
analytical tasks using a simple and
intuitive scripting language making it
accessible to data analysts and
scientists Peg automatically optimizes
and executes these tasks in parallel
enabling efficient processing of large
datasets it supports a wide range of
data types and offers a rich set of
operators for data manipulation Apache
pick is a valuable tool for batch
processing and iterative analytics in
Big Data environments sixth one on the
list is Apache Flink
Apache fling is an open source stream
processing framework that excels in both
batch and real-time data processing with
its fault tolerant and scalable
architecture flank enables the
processing of continuous streams of data
with low latency it supports event time
processing and stateful computations
making it suitable for complex analytics
and machine learning tasks flink's
flexibility allows users to build the
data pipelines and applications that
seamlessly integrate batch and stream
processing flings flexibility allows
users to build data pipelines and
applications that seamlessly integrate
batch and streaming data its robust set
of features including windowing fault
tolerance and exactly once processing
positions its robust set of creatures
including windowing fault tolerance and
exactly one's processing positions Flink
as a powerful tool for handling
real-time data processing requirements
and enabling Advanced analytics on
streaming data seventh one on the list
is Apache Cassandra Apache Cassandra is
a highly scalable and distributed nosql
database designed to handle Mass amounts
of data across multiple commodity
servers it offers High availability for
tolerance and tunable consistency levels
making it suitable for use cases that
require high performance and scalability
Cassandra's decentralized architecture
and peer-to-peer application and shows
data durability and seamless scalability
as data volumes grow it provides a
flexible data model and supports fast
read and write operations making it
ideal for real-time applications time
series data and large scale data
injection with its robust features
Cassandra empowers organizations to
handle big data workloads with ease and
reliability rates were on the list is
elasticsearch elasticsearch is a
real-time distributed search and
analytics engine designed for lightning
fast search capabilities and data
exploration it allows users to store
search and analyze large volumes of data
in near real time making it a powerful
tool for various use cases like log
analysis monitoring and full text search
elasticsearch is built on top of the
luens search library and provides a
scalable distributed architecture and
that can handle High throughput
workloads it supports advanced search
features aggregations and jio search
capabilities making it an essential tool
for businesses that require fast and
accurate data retrieval and Analysis now
ninth one on the list which is Apache
storm Apache storm is a distributed
real-time computation system designed
for processing high speed streaming data
it provides a scalable and full torrent
platform for real-time analytics making
it ideal for applications that require
low latency in processing storms
architecture enables the parallel
execution of data processing tasks
allowing for seamless scalability and
high throughput it supports various
programming languages and provides
reliable message processing with
guarantee the data delivery
Finance telecommunications and social
media where real-time data processing is
crucial for detecting fraud monitoring
Trends and making it immediate business
decisions with storm organizations can
harness the power of real-time data and
respond swiftly to changing conditions
and finally we have Apache discipline
Apache is a plane as a web-based
notebook that provides an interactive
environment for data analytics and
exploration it supports multiple
programming languages including python
scalar and SQL allowing users to write
and execute code Snippets in
collaborative and intuitive manner
Zeppelin facilitates data visualization
by integrating with popular
visualization libraries and provides
real-time visualizations for quick
insights it enables the creation of
interactive documents known as notebooks
which combine a Live code visualizations
and narrative text with its flexible and
user-friendly interface supplement
empowers data scientists and analysts to
explore analyze and share their findings
efficiently making it valuable tool and
their big data ecosystem these are just
a few examples of the talk a big data
tools available in the industry each
tool has its own strength and use cases
so it's important to consider your
specific requirements when choosing the
right tool for your big data project
with that we appreciate the end of this
session on the top Big Data tools should
you have any queries regarding any of
the topics discussed in the session then
please feel free to let us know in the
comment section below and our team
effects plus we'll be more than happy to
assist you with all your queries and
concerns and until next time thank you
for watching and stay tuned for more
from Simply gone
staying ahead in your career requires
continuous learning and upskilling
whether you're a student aiming to learn
today's top skills or a working
professional looking to advance your
career we've got you covered explore our
impressive catalog of certification
programs in Cutting Edge domains
including data science cloud computing
cyber security AI machine learning or
digital marketing designed in
collaboration with leading universities
and top corporations and delivered by
industry experts choose any of our
programs and set yourself on the path to
Career Success click the link in the
description to know more
hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learned YouTube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos turn it up and get certified
click here
thank you
