in today's world we create a massive
amount of information every day to
understand and use all this data
companies use Advanced Technologies in
this video on top Big Data Technologies
in 2024 we will learn about the top Big
Data technologies that are changing how
we analyze data these tools help us
process data and use it for the things
like machine learning from managing and
processing data to conducting
sophisticated machine learning analysis
these Technologies play an important
role in using the immense power of data
they are like the tools in a data
scientist toolbox enabling businesses to
make informed decisions optimize
operations and gain a Competitive Edge
so let's get started with this video but
before we begin let me ask you a quick
question so which technology is commonly
used for processing and analyzing Big
Data option A is Apache Hadoop option b
is Microsoft Excel options is Adobe
Photoshop and option D is Javascript now
you can pause this video and answer in
the comment section below so let's start
exploring these important Technologies
First Technology on the list is Apache
Hadoop Apache group is like a superhero
of the Big Data world it is an amazing
open source tool that's been at the
heart of Big Data Revolution think of it
as a magical framework that's specially
designed to handle and make sense of
incredibly huge piles of data all while
using a bunch of regular computers now
the secret source of Hadoop is its two
main parts that is Hadoop distributed
file systems that is hdfs and mapreduce
hdfs is like a super organized librarian
that keeps all your data neatly in order
and mapreduce is like a team of super
fast workers who can process this data
lightning quick the cool thing about
Hadoop is that it can work with many
regular everyday computers making it
super flexible and cost effective you
don't need any fancy expensive Hardware
Etc Hadoop can take your data and spread
it out across many computers like a big
puzzle this way it's stored safely and
processed super fast because all these
computers can work on it together this
was about Apache Hadoop now second on
the list we have is Apache spark Apache
spark is a popular and efficient tool
that can be used instead of hadoops
mapreduce it has a special feature
called in memory processing which means
it can work with the data faster this
makes it a great choice for people who
work with data like engineers and
analysts what's cool about spark is that
it can do a lot of different things it
can handle batch processing interactive
queries and real-time data streaming and
even process data as it's coming in this
makes it a flexible and Powerful tool so
in summary Apache spark is fast and
versatile tool that's great for people
who work with data it can do a lot of
different things and is Preferred Choice
for many professionals next we have is
Apache Kafka Pachi Kafka is a super
smart messenger for data it's designed
to handle lots of information flying
around in real time imagine you have a
huge amount of data that needs to be
sent from one place to another quickly
and safely that's where Kafka comes in
think of it as a super highway for data
where information can flow smoothly and
reliably it's like having a special Mail
system that never loses your letters or
packages no matter how much you send
Kafka is super important because it
helps businesses and applications keep
up with the latest information it's like
having a news feed that never stops
updating so you always know what's
happening right now one of the cool
things about Kafka is that it can handle
a lot of data at once and it's really
good at making sure none of that data
gets lost along the way so if you're
Building A system that needs to stay
update in real time Kafka is a key tool
to have in your toolkit next big data
technology in 2024 is Apache Hive Apache
Hive is a helpful tool that makes it
easier for people to analyze and query
data stored in Hadoop it does this by
providing a user-friendly interface that
looks a lot like SQL called hiveql this
means that even if you are not a tech
expert you can still use Hive to work
with data in Hadoop Hive takes the
queries you write and turns them into
tasks that can be processed by hadoop's
mapreduce or Apache tests these are just
fancy terms for the behind the scenes
operations that happen in Hadoop to
process and analyze data so you don't
have to worry about the nitty-gritty
details Hive takes care it for you here
the Hadoop itself can store all sorts of
data including structured and
semi-structured in a system called hdfs
Hive is like a bridge that connects you
to this data making it accessible and
easy to work with so in a nutshell
Apache Hive is a handy tool that lets
people who may not be Tech visas easily
query and analyze data stored in Hadoop
hdfs thanks to its sql-like interface
and smart data processing capabilities
all right next we have is Presto so
Presto is a powerful tool that helps
people analyze data from different
sources like Hadoop Cassandra and
regular databases it's like a super
smart detective that can find and make
sense of data no matter where it's
stored this is really useful because it
means you can explore and study data
without having to worry about where it
is kept imagine you have a big puzzle
with pieces scattered all over the room
Presto is like the detective who can
find all those pieces and put the puzzle
together for you even if some pieces are
under the couch press to act like a
super smart search engine for your data
it helps you find and use your data no
matter where it is hiding so if you want
to understand your business better
Presto can help you get all the answers
you need from your data so if you are
interested in mastering the world of
data engineering look no further than a
post Gadget program in data engineering
this comprehensive course is tailor made
for professionals like you in this
course you will be diving deep into
essential topics such as Hadoop
framework spark based data processing
Kafka driven data pipelines and the
introsities of man managing big data on
AWS and Azure Cloud infrastructures our
unique approach Blends live session
Hands-On industry projects exciting IBM
hackathons and interactive ask me
anything sessions to provide you with
the most enriching learning experience
for admission to this data engineering
course candidates need a bachelor's
degree with an average of 50 or higher
marks two plus years of work experience
then basic understanding of
object-oriented programming that is
preferred so elevate your data
engineering skills and career prospects
today enroll now hi I am Assad Shah from
Canada and I recently upskilled myself
with a professional certification
program in data engineering offered by
simply learned in collaboration with
Purdue University after working for a
long time in SQL domain moving to Big
Data was a great challenge for me I
needed to upgrade my skills to improve
my performance in my current Workhorse
curriculum is well formulated while
industrial relevant Concepts and project
which helped increase deeper knowledge
about big data now I can easily carry
out my big data projects as well as
successfully lead a team of Engineers I
even got a decent salary hike
the wall is moving at a much faster Pace
than we think make sure you don't make
behind so obstacle yourself and move to
a step forward and step closer to your
dream so the next big technology on the
list for 2024 is rapid Miner so
rapidminer is a user friendly and open
source platform for data science that
helps organizations build and use
predictive models even if they don't
have advanced programming skills this
means that anyone who works with data
can benefit from its features regardless
of their level of expertise one of the
great things about rapidminer is that it
can handle a variety of tasks related to
data such as preparing and cleaning it
training it and like training machine
learning models and deploying these
models to practical use this makes it
versatile tool that can be used in
different stages of data project so
whether you are a data scientist or just
someone who occasionally works with data
rapid Miner can simplify your workflow
and make it easier to achieve your goals
it is designed to be accessible and user
friendly so you don't need to be a
coding expert to get the most out of it
alright coming to the last one that is
the last big data technology for 2024
which is Apache Cassandra Apache
Cassandra is a type of database that is
specifically designed to handle a lot of
data in a highly reliable and efficient
manner it is particularly well suited
for situations where you need to store
and access large amounts of information
quickly and without any descriptions one
of the key features of Cassandra is its
ability to handle a large amount of data
points across multiple computers or
nodes which makes it a greater choice
for applications that need to process a
high volume of information this
distributed nature of Cassandra also
ensures that even if one node fails the
system will still keep running smoothly
making it incredibly fault tolerant
Cassandra is often used in Industries
and applications that require fast and
reliable data storage and retrieval for
example in the internet of things that
is iot where a massive number of devices
are constantly generating data Cassandra
can efficiently manage this influx of
information similarly e-commerce
websites and on social media platforms
that need to handle numerous
transactions in user interactions find
the center to be a valuable tool so
these were the top Big Data Technologies
in 2024 to sum up these leading Big Data
Technologies Apache Hadoop Apache spark
Apache Kafka Apache Hive Presto Etc are
the Forefront of data processing and
analytics today they have transformed
the way organizations handle and utilize
data whether it's managing large data
sets enabling real-time processing or
casting data pipelines or optimal
queries so alright guys with that we
have come to the end of this video If
you like this video please give it a
thumbs up I hope it will help you all
thanks for watching stay safe and keep
learning staying ahead in your career
requires continuous learning and
upskilling whether you're a student
aiming to learn today's top skills or a
working professional looking to advance
your career we've got you covered
explore our impressive catalog of
certification programs in Cutting Edge
domains including data science cloud
computing cyber security AI machine
learning or digital marketing designed
in collaboration with leading
universities and top corporations and
delivered by industry experts choose any
of our programs and set yourself on the
path to Career Success click the link in
the description to know more
foreign
hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learning YouTube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos to nerd up and get certified
click here
