what is Big Data with the spike in
internet usage and other technologies
such as IOT devices mobile phones
autonomous devices like robotics drones
vehicles appliances the volume of
generated data is growing exponentially
at an unprecedented rate this constant
increase in the amount of data generated
has led to the emergence of big data so
what is Big Data let's keep it simple
Big Data refers to a collection of data
that is so huge and complex that none of
the traditional data management tools
are able to store it or process it
efficiently now you know that big data
involves lots of data but have you ever
stopped to think about just how big is
big data according to Forbes there are
2.5 quintillion bytes of data created
every day now you might be wondering how
Big Data fools managed to handle such a
huge amount of data when Netflix offers
you personalized recommendations from
its library of thousands of movies and
TV shows that's big deer at work big
data helps Netflix to the mind which
programs may be of interest to you and
the recommendation systems actually
influences 80 percent of the content we
watch on Netflix in the near future with
the growing increase in the volume of
data big data will grow bigger and the
demand for data management experts will
shoot out the gap between the demand for
data professionals and the availability
will widen this will help data
scientists and analysts draw higher
salaries so what are you waiting for
drive into the world of big data and
towards a bright future start learning
this trending technology using antiochus
expertly curated courses until next time
happy learning
you
