[Music]
well hello everyone my name is Devin
Knight I will be your instructor for
today to's class this is powerbi
beginner to Pro our 2023 Edition we have
actually taught this class before but it
was almost two years ago and as you
might expect a lot of things change over
time and so we wanted to do a nice
refresher of this course that maybe some
of you have seen before and you can see
it on our YouTube channel today it is
actually one of our most popular YouTube
channel or videos excuse me uh but we're
excited today to give you an updated
refreshed view of that because as you
know technology changes and it's always
good to see how powerbi works today as
opposed to how it did two years ago so I
am joined today by one of my colleagues
Manuel kintana he'll be popping up on
screen here for a moment he's going to
be answering questions in the chat so
you'll hear from him throughout the
morning and really through the afternoon
depending on where you're at locally uh
but he's gonna be answering a lot of the
questions through the chat as we work
our way through today's classman well go
ahead and say hello hi everybody super
uh super excited to be here um I've
Loved everyone who's attended my events
you guys are in for a great ride here
with Devon if you're interested in
powerbi be prepared to be wowed and
everything's looking spectacular on the
stream about a 7c delay Dev so we're
good to go perfect well thank you Manuel
well yeah as I said this is a a pretty
lengthy three-hour powerbi course but it
is for beginners so I want to make sure
I set the context of who this class is
meant for if you've been working with
powerbi for years this class is probably
not for you this is a beginner level
class where we're going to be teaching
you some of the basics of working with
powerbi and I like to teach it as if
you've never done this before so that's
my goal is to teach powerbi for someone
that maybe totally brand new to it that
you'd be able to pick up a few things
throughout the day and maybe even those
that uh have been working with powerbi
for some time might be got get a little
few nuggets or tips here and there of
things that maybe they haven't seen
before so what I'd like to do to start
us off for today is to just share with
you a couple of the resources that you
may want for today uh I've got this
shared on my screen let me actually show
my screen here there we go so a couple
of the resources for today's class that
you need is you will absolutely need the
powerbi desktop powerbi desktop
application is kind of the companion app
that goes with powerbi that allows you
to design solutions that you'll
eventually publish to the cloud uh to be
able to share your your results or your
work with others now the powerbi desktop
is a Windows application so if you're
watching this and you're on a Mac
unfortunately I have a little bit of bad
news for you you won't be able to
install the powerbi desktop on a Windows
operating system sorry on a Mac
operating system Mac OS you will need to
have a Windows operating system to
install the powerbi desktop now you can
do things like run parallels or virtual
machines with inside of your Mac
operating system to do that but just a
heads up that is potentially a roadblock
for some of you that may be watching or
trying to play along on a Mac the other
link that I have in the chat and by the
way my colleagues will be sharing these
links in the YouTube chat here as well
uh these links I'm sharing with you you
can grab at any point but the second
link that I'm going to be sharing with
you is to the class files now the class
files aren't super critical for today's
class uh the class files are actually
something we're going to be doing live
together anyways but you'll be able to
find my completed Solutions out uh out
there you'll also find a few uh images
that we're going to be using as
backgrounds with inside of our reports I
shared a few few little nuggets there uh
but you can find those class files at
the link that I have in the uh on my
screen now but you can also I think my
colleagues will be sharing them within
the chat as well all right so that's a
couple of the things that you'll need
for today a couple of the resources
let's go back to full screen view here
for a moment and talk a little bit more
about what to expect for today's class
now this is uh a recorded class one of
the most common questions that we get is
is this class recorded absolutely
whenever we stream to our YouTube
channel these classes will be recorded
and available here for you to watch
later if you see any kind of glitches
with YouTube just all you can all don't
don't forget you can always rewind you
can even rewind live in YouTube and you
can kind of flip back a few seconds and
catch up back to where we were and catch
yourself up so if I go too fast through
a section if you want to see something a
second time you're on YouTube you can
just kind of rewind it in the YouTube
video and go back to where I was before
I went maybe maybe perhaps it was my
fault maybe I went a little bit too fast
or maybe you stepped away for a moment
you can always rewind me and go watch
things a second time now I really don't
have a lot of slides other than the one
I had open up on my screen a moment ago
I really want to jump straight into the
application and get you familiar with
powerbi because we have three hours
together and tell you what I could spend
a full week with you uh talking about
powerbi if you'd let me uh or if my if
my would let me do it for free that's
the other thing but uh what we're going
to be doing today though is we're going
to jump straight into the tool and we're
going to use the powerbi desktop to
connect into and build a set of reports
so I'm going to go back to sharing my
screen
here and I'm going to go ahead and get
rid of the slides and we're going to
talk through first of all of course
launching the powerbi desktop once we
launch the powerbi desktop what are some
of the areas that we need to be aware of
uh what are some of the things that we
care about whenever we get into the
power powerbi desktop and where do you
need to draw your attention to as you
start to work within the tool so I'm
going to be starting by making the
Assumption you have the powerbi desktop
installed if you don't take a moment and
install the powerbi desktop you can find
that uh either through links that are
being shared in the chat from my
colleagues uh or you can also of course
use a search engine and search for the
powerbi desktop download uh but I'm
going to be starting launching the
powerbi desktop today I'm going to take
myself off camera for a moment so you
can see my start menu here but I'm going
to go ahead and start my Windows machine
here and look for the powerbi desktop
which I have already installed and I'm
going to launch the powerbi desktop like
so pretty simple stuff so far just
launching the application I'll bring
myself back on camera now now once the
powerbi desktop launches it's going to
bring up a little startup menu on our
screen which we should see Pop open in
the middle of my screen here in a moment
there it is it's that green background
that we're
seeing and what we can do is we can kind
of look at the interface that's provided
to us and we can get a little bit of
interesting nuggets from this uh what
you'll find is on the leand side over
here this is where you can find some of
the more recent files that you've worked
on so if you've worked with inside of
powerbi recently you can find those
files again on the left uh you will find
there are some tutorial videos in the
middle those tutorial videos are a
little bit older at this point but you
do have some tutorial videos and then on
the right hand side there's some useful
links that might be helpful to you as
well the one in particular that I tend
to highlight is the powerbi blog now
powerbi is updated rather frequently and
the powerbi team at Microsoft does a
pretty good job of documenting those
changes through their blog so I
definitely keep a pretty close eye on
the blog to see what's changed what's
new uh whenever there's updates to the
tool all right but once you're done with
that you can go ahead and close this out
you can hit the little close button in
the top right and that'll take us to the
main application here so I'm going to go
ahead and close that all right so here's
the powerbi desktop the main view that
you'll get used to using over time and
the first thing I want to show you is I
mentioned just a moment ago that powerbi
is updated very frequently so how do you
know which version of powerbi that
you're running because maybe you
installed powerbi a year ago or four
years ago and you want to know which
version of the tool you're running on
your
workstation so if I wanted to uh go see
the version of the tool that I'm running
I can do that by going up to the help
menu and I'll zoom in on this here for
you in a moment but I'm going to go up
to the help
menu found right
here select about and then it'll pop
this open in the middle of your screen
letting you know which version of the
powerbi desktop you're running it
actually it looks like I'm running a
slightly old version myself there is a
update that did come out in January I
think it was January 10th there was an
update of the powerbi desktop I I
thought mine was up to date even uh but
there there are very frequent updates
and you can always kind of go to The
Help menu and about to see which version
of the tool you're running so so if you
find that you're running a particularly
older version of the tool then you might
want to consider going ahead and
updating yours to update all you have to
do is download the new version of the
powerbi desktop and you can just install
it right on top of the old one you don't
have to uninstall the previous one you
just simply install it and it will take
care of it for you all right so that's
how you know which version of the
desktop tool you're running go to help
and then about all right so the next
thing that we're going to do then is I
want to highlight the different areas of
the tool as a beginner that you really
need to to focus in on or that you need
to be aware of so when you're working
with inside the powerbi desktop there's
several areas that I want to draw your
attention to starting with the git data
button the git data button is your
starting place for any new powerbi
solution so if you're starting a powerbi
solution from the ground up you're going
to go to the get data button to be able
to connect to the data that you want to
use for the set of reports that you're
trying to build so the git data button
is generally going to be the first place
you go whenever you're working with
inside of powerbi that's a
generalization there's going to be some
exceptions to that but generally when
you're starting a new solution get data
is where you
start the other button that kind of goes
along with it or often goes with it is
the transform data button over here on
the right a little bit further to the
right and the transform data button is
where you'll go anytime you want to do
any kind of data manipulation or data
cleansing to your solution the transform
data button launches a tool known as
power query so when you select transform
data this is going to launch a tool
called the power query editor okay now
these two buttons together tend to go
along in this phase that I and many of
us at pragmatic Works call the data
Discovery phase so I usually like to
break powerbi down into four different
phases phase one which we'll talk about
now is maybe the data Discovery phase
sometimes also referred to as the data
shaping phase you can use those as
synonyms if you'd like but what you're
doing with inside of that data Discovery
phase is you're going to be connecting
to data okay so you're going to be
connecting to data using the get data
button and then you're also going to be
manipulating data or performing data
cleansing
steps and that will be done underneath
the transform data
button okay so these two buttons are
going to become very familiar with early
on with your development with inside of
powerbi these are the first couple steps
that you'll use your going to go connect
to data and then you're going to make
sure that the data that you brought in
is actually accurate that's the data
cleansing step found underneath the
transform data section so that's phase
one and we'll talk about that a lot in
our first hour then we'll kind of merge
into a few other topics as we go later
and later on in the session now let's go
ahead and talk about the other three
phases the three additional phases
because it's helpful to kind of have a
full context of how each of these things
uh works as you're looking at the Fuller
picture of powerbi so phase number two
tends to happen on these two buttons
over here on the right hand side I sorry
I said right I mean left uh on the left
hand side you have a data
View and you have the model
view and these two buttons on the Le
hand side these correlate with the
second phase within your powerbi project
which is oftentimes referred to as the
data modeling
phase what are you doing with inside the
data modeling phase well there's
actually quite a a bit but generally
speaking the data modeling phase is
going to be where you're doing things
like creating
relationships okay so what I mean by
that is oftentimes you're going to be
connecting into more than one data
source and so by creating relationships
that allows you to connect those
different data sources together so say
for example you're trying to get an
understanding of what profit like is for
your company well generally that's a
pretty complex question because you have
data in a lot of different places you
might have your income in one data
source Maybe income data is stored in a
SQL server and maybe you have your
expenses are stored in Oracle and maybe
you have some data in spreadsheets and
access databases and data is kind of all
over the place and so to be able to
answer this question that's kind of
overarching the entire company often you
need to be able to create relationships
between those different data sources
you're working with so creating
relationships is a major part of powerbi
we we in a three-hour session we'll have
just a little bit of time to talk about
it today uh but I am going to direct you
to some lengthier sessions where we
spent a lot of time talking about data
modeling uh those are sessions that
we've done in the past so you can
actually watch those today even we we'll
share with you uh in a little bit where
to find that all right so data modeling
encompasses creating relationships it
also encompasses building
hierarchies and forgive my spelling
hierarchies is like my Nemesis I I never
know if I'm spelling hierarchies right
but building hierarchies is the idea of
being able to group multiple Fields
together for the purposes of later
building reports faster so by grouping
those fields together it creates this
natural hierarchy of data where you can
drill into say for example uh I want to
drill into this geography Geographic
hierarchy and I want to drill into the
country and I want to see okay I'm
expanding into the United States and
then I can drill down into uh the State
of Florida where I'm from and then I can
see all the cities with inside Florida
and I can drill down to the city level
all the way down to a zip code level so
that's kind of the idea of a hierarchy
is it allows you to drill deeper and
deeper into your uh data so hierarchies
are a popular part of um your modeling
that you might do and by the way there's
lots of other things within the modeling
steps that you're doing we're trying to
keep it a little basic here for today's
session and then the third thing I'll
mention here around data modeling is
also encompassed with inside of your
data model is this idea of Dax
calculations I see lots of comments in
the chat about Dax I think folks knew
that was coming next right Dax is the
data
analysis I'll go a and type this
out expression link
okay so Dax is the language that you'll
use for building calculations so what I
mean by that is you can kind of think of
like what you used you may have done in
the past in Excel some of you maybe have
some experience with Excel formulas and
have worked quite a bit with Excel Dax
is kind of that idea of those Excel
formulas you would have done in the past
or at least it can be it's not exactly
the same as Excel formulas but there are
a lot of commonalities there but the
idea of writing Dax Expressions is often
where you would want to be able to
create some some kind of additional
metric let's say that I wanted to
compare this year's Revenue to last
year's Revenue well to be able to do
that comparison you would need to know a
little bit of Dax to be able to return
back a formula that would show the
previous year the prior Year's Revenue
so Dax is I wish something we could get
super deep into today we're going to
explore it a little bit but I will refer
you back to some additional classes
these are also three-hour classes that
we've done on Dax that might be helpful
to get you further along with Dax if
you're ready for that Dax is usually
something that you want to learn and get
a little bit more in depth into after
you've been working with the basics of
powerbi for a little bit then you'll
want to dig deeper into how Dax works
okay all right so that's phase number
two phase number three that we're going
to talk about is up in the top left
right above the previous two buttons
this would be the report
View and with inside of the report view
this is where you will do what most
people think of when they think of
powerbi Within the report view this is
phase three this is your data
visualization phase and with inside of
your data visualization phase of course
you're going to be building
reports okay you're going to be
designing things like uh drill Downs you
might do things like tool tips uh we'll
explore a few of those things today uh
you may also do things like uh explore
custom visuals so custom visuals are an
aspect of powerbi that you can work with
as well so there's lots of components
here I'm being being very brief mainly
because the uh screen screen size I have
here but the data visualization phase is
while many people think of that as one
of the core things with powerbi you
might notice that the step number one
and step number two tend to happen
before you build your visuals you really
need to have a proper data model before
you can build visuals the way you expect
them to be returned back so uh while a
lot of people try and jump rather
quickly to the data visualization side
of things within powerbi there's a lot
of benefits to to investing time and
building a proper data model and again
we'll share some links to some other uh
classes that we've done in the past that
will give you uh what does a proper data
model mean that right that's me saying
kind of a very generic term there uh so
I'll share uh later some classes where
we've actually spent some time talking
more about data
modeling all right so data visualization
is a big part of powerbi but again phase
one and phase two oftentimes are things
that are happening first uh that you'll
want to focus in on before you start to
build your visuals okay all right
so the FI fourth and Final Phase here is
going to be your sharing phase and
that's going to happen up here with the
publish button over where the publish
button can be found phase number four
this is your data sharing phase and with
inside of the data sharing phase there's
a couple things that will happen here
this is actually most of this time is
actually not spent in the powerbi
desktop you'll spend a little bit of
brief time within the powerbi desktop
but then after you publish your solution
which is Step number one with inside of
this phase you'll publish your work but
after you publish your work where are
you publishing it to well you're
publishing it to Microsoft cloud what's
known as the powerbi service and from
the powerbi service you'll be able to
very easily share your work with others
so you'll share with
others and you'll also be able to do
things like schedule data
refreshes that's all what's going to
happen once you publish your work to the
powerbi service that's where you're able
to then share with others make make sure
your data stays up to date and then you
could also do things like uh roow LEL
security which we won't have time to
talk about Unfortunately today but the
idea of Road level security at least is
an important one because the idea of
Road level security is where you can not
only be able to present results to your
users but you can secure the data in the
reports that you designed so they only
see the rows or the results that they're
supposed to see so you can make sure
that hey Jimmy only sees the southeast
data Sandra only sees the Northwest Data
and while I have only one report they're
only seeing the data that's relevant to
them and that's all those are all steps
that happen with inside of the powerbi
service that last one road level
security is actually something that's
done both in the desktop tool and in the
service uh so there's a lot that goes
into that all right now we're GNA move
on from this if you want to take a
screenshot of this I'm done I'm done you
can kind of uh move on from this so if
you want to take a screenshot for your
notes you'll have this available and
we're going to move on to our uh first
demonstration and it's really going to
be a continu demonstration that we're
going to be doing here coming up next
and what we're going to be doing in our
demonstration is walking through pulling
in some data then using that data to do
some data manipulation which is that
step number one remember phase one is
all around data cleansing and that's
what we're going to walk you through is
how to connect to data and then after
you connect to that data then how do we
uh start to shape the data to make sure
that it is cleansed and we're looking at
Accurate results then we'll build a data
model we'll talk about building
relationships and hierarchies and do a
little bit of Dax today and then we'll
finally publish our solution so that's
kind of our steps here as we get going
today all right and I'm going to tell
you what I'm going to kill my teams just
so it's not popping up on us here that
would be frustrating to see teams
popping up the whole time here I thought
I did that but apparently not there we
go now I did all right so here's the use
case that we have for today and by the
way if you attended our session that we
did that was named the same thing two
years ago this is going to be the same
use case the same demo but you'll see a
few different things as powerbi has
changed a little bit throughout the last
two years since we did the session last
but what I'd like you to do is put your
imagination cap on here with me for a
moment and imagine that you work for a
bank and the bank that you work for they
are interested in focusing in on opening
up another physical brick-and Mort
location right another physical location
where they can serve their customers and
there's a there's a lot of internal data
with inside of the organization to tell
them where that's probably best to do
they you have the frequency of your
visits from your customers you have the
highest density of area where your
customers live but what you like to do
is to try and bring in some additional
supplemental data that maybe can
influence your decision it may not be
the overarching reason why you choose
one location or another but it's going
to be an influencing factor into why you
decide where you're going to open up
your next banking location and so what
we're going to do is we're going to walk
through pulling in some data and the
data file by the way that I'm going to
show you is in the class files however
you don't have to have the class files
to follow along with this because what
I'm going to be doing is actually
showing you how you can get this uh file
that uh we're going to be pulling from a
website the reason I shared the FI the
data source with inside the class files
is in case any for some reason someone
couldn't get to the website that I'm
going to be showing you you'll have a
backup plan there you can go look in the
class files that I've shared as well all
right so let me take myself off camera
and let's shift back in here to My Demo
and what we're going to be doing is I'm
going to launch open a web browser on my
screen you can pick whichever web
browser you prefer and what I'm going to
do once I open up my web browser I'm
going to go with chrome
today and what I'm going to do is I'm
going to go to the website
data.gov okay so here's the website
we're going to right here if you want to
follow along you can
okay
data.gov all right so open up your web
browser and go to
data.gov and once we go to data.gov what
I'd like to do is then search for a
particular data set that's going to help
answer the question where banks have
been unsuccessful in the past because
that's going to be an influencing Factor
on where we decide we're going to open
up our next physical location okay so if
I want to be able to determine that I
know there's a data set on this website
again this is on data.gov right now and
I'm going to search with inside of the
search bar found right here by the way
there's loads of data sets here there's
more than 335,000 data sets to choose
from but the one that I'm going to look
for is one called FDI C failed Banks so
for those of you following along you can
type that in FDIC failed Banks and then
once you do go ahead and hit the little
search over here on the right hand side
so FDIC failed Banks let me zoom in on
that just in case it's a little small to
read and I'll go ahead and hit the enter
key or search to be able to navigate to
that all right now this is for me at
least it returns back 30 data sets if
you notice it returns back a different
number of data sets for you don't get
too hung up on that but what I do want
you to do is to follow along with me and
we're going to go navigate to this data
set right here called FDIC failed Bank
list and I'm going to select the data
set by clicking on the name of it on the
top right
here okay so for those of you following
along you can go ahead and click on FDIC
failed Bank list the title at the top
and that will take us into the data set
that we're going to be using
today all right so once I've navigated
here this will take me to where I can
actually find the file that's going to
have all the data that we want for the
purposes of today's class and there's an
interesting way that we can work with
this uh powerbi will allow me to connect
either to a file that I have stored
somewhere locally on my workstation or
one of the really interesting things
that powerbi allows you to do is you can
actually point to a website or a URL
where data is stored now as what I if I
was teaching this class interactively
normally what I would ask you is what
would be the benefit of me pointing to a
web URL rather than downloading the file
locally since this is a little bit less
interactive I won't be able to see your
responses in a timely manner because
there's a little bit of a delay with
YouTube uh I'll go ahead and answer
myself the benefit here of pointing to a
web location or a URL as opposed to
downloading the file locally is that the
data is going to change right and I want
to make sure that I'm pointing to the
most upto-date view of the data that I
could possibly find if I were to
download the file locally that would
mean I need to go download the file
anytime there's new changes or updates
to the data I'd have to go download it
again opposed to if I point to the URL I
know I'm pointing to the the true source
of where the data can be found so to be
able to do that in today's session what
I'm going to do is I found right here
and you're probably hopefully seeing it
as well a comma separated values file
that we can use and we can connect into
now rather than downloading it so here's
what I want you to be careful with I
don't want you to download the file
where you see the download button
instead of downloading it what we're
going to do is we're going to rightclick
not left click but we're going to right
click on the download button and we're
going to select that we want to copy the
link address now if you're using a
different web browser yours may say copy
shortcut or copy link whatever it may be
you're going to copy the URL for that
download button basically where can the
data be found behind the scenes because
we're going to be using that with inside
of powerbi and my colleagues that are
man that are taking care of the chat
they can share with you this link as
well in case for some reason you have
problems making it to this
website but I'm going to go ahead and
cop Cy this link address right here
again all we did there just to reiterate
I right clicked on this not left clicked
right clicked and select copy link
address now that I have that URL copied
I'm going to go back over to the powerbi
desktop and I'm going to use that URL
inside of the powerbi desktop now I'm
going to try and make this interactive
even though it's a little difficult to
do with a delay but let me ask you this
question where do I go now now that I
have that URL where's the first place I
would go to be able to tell powerbi that
I want to connect to that data source we
talked about it earlier in my drawing
where would I need to go to be able to
connect into my data let's see there's
about a seven to 10c delay but let's see
if anybody can guess where's the
location that I should go there we go
now we're getting some answers in there
thank you yvon uh Rachel nice Ellen nice
job Paula well done yes the get data
button is where we want to go so if I go
up to the get data button at the top of
my screen remember that's to be found
right up top here we talked about that
one earlier if I go up to the get data
button found right here this will list
off many of the different data sources
that I have available to me now you'll
notice here it says common data sources
these are not all of the data sources
that are available these are the ones
that are basically their Microsoft data
sources but there's far more data
sources in fact there's more than 150
additional data sources that you can
connect into if you choose the more
option down here on the bottom I'm not
actually going to click on more but I
want you to know there's far more data
sources available than what you see
listed on my screen right now if you
click more okay but for the purposes of
what we're doing right now what we're
going to do is I'm going to again select
the get data button right here and then
I'm going to select the web option I saw
somebody got that right in the chat as
well we're going to do web after you
click on get data okay so that's the
path that we're doing right now Peter
you're right on get data then web all
right so I'm going to go ahead and do
that on my screen as well hopefully
you're following along again if I do
anything too fast don't forget this is a
uh YouTube video you can always rewind
me uh even though this is live right now
you can go and Rewind me and watch it
again all right so I'm going to go ahead
and select get data then choose
web and once I choose web it's going to
pop open in the middle of my screen
where I can provide the URL that we're
going to be using for today's example so
uh you can either take the example that
was provided in the chat that would be
the file that I'm going to paste in
right now
or you can rewind and you can see where
did I get this URL I got this URL that I
just pasted in right here I got that
from the data.gov website so if you if
you're struggling to find where did I
get this from there is a link in the uh
chat uh maybe Minh well if you don't
mind sharing it again now that we're
pasting it in here right now uh but
you'll also be able to rewind the video
a little bit and see how I got
that all right very good so now that I
pasted in that URL we're going to go
ahead and click okay right here and
clicking okay that will allow us to uh
take this to the next step basically we
can connect into the data and then we
can start to use this and pull the data
in from the website okay even though
it's a CSV file we're pulling it from
the web okay it looks like menwell
shared the link in there again so if you
missed it earlier you can grab that link
in the chat now all right so I'm going
to hit okay and this is going to take us
into the next step where it'll promp us
to authenticate authenticate meaning how
are we going to be connecting into the
data uh you can see we have several
different options I don't want to get
too hung up in this area but what we're
going to be doing for today's example is
we're going to be connecting using the
anonymous example and uh Antonio I'm
gonna star your question because I think
we'll come back to that question here in
just a
moment all right so what you'll find
here in the uh on my screen right now is
the different methods of how we can
authenticate to the website that we just
provided that would be the fdic.gov
website in our scenario we're going to
be connecting using the anonymous
connector which is the default selection
and then you can go ahead and get ahead
of me a little bit and click connect
okay so if you want to step ahead of me
a few clicks hit connect here and then
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
answer Antonio's question that I saw in
the chat because it's very relevant to
where we're at right now so Antonio's
question was around the advanced options
so what I asked you to do is you can go
ahead and hit connect I'm going to take
a step back and answer the question that
you see below my my face right now um he
asked about the advanced options that
are found right here what the advanced
options allow you to do is you can
actually parameterize the URL so if I
were to click on the advanced option
here it would allow me to parse out
parts of the URL and I could pass in
different parameters in the URL so for
example let's say the URL that I'm using
as a data source has in it a parameter
for the year and I want to be able to
dynamically pass in which year of of
results I want to return back
this is one of the ways you can do that
so the advanced options the short answer
to that question is the advanced options
allow you to parameterize the URL and
just return back certain results so
there good question thank you for that
all right let's go ahead and click okay
and I'm going to catch back up to you
remember what I told you to do just a
moment ago go ahead and click connect
right here and by clicking connect that
will allow us to uh take the next steps
in this wizard that we're looking at
right now so I'm going to go ahead and
click connect
all right so once I do that hopefully
I'm catching up to you now what you're
going to find on this next screen is a
preview of the results of the data that
we're about to get into so this is just
giving us a sampling of the data that we
are going to be connecting into so what
you'll find is there's a couple buttons
on the bottom here that I really want to
draw your attention into so let me go
ahead and focus in on this area down
here on the
bottom all right so there's three
buttons on the bottom here uh the the
cancel button think is pretty
self-explanatory I'm not going to get
too deep into the cancel button but
let's talk about the other ones here
okay what we're going to see here is we
have load and transform data and I want
to describe the difference between these
two to you first of all the load button
what it allows you to do is it will
immediately load the results of your in
this case CSV file but will it will
immediately load the results of your
data into the powerbi data
model okay so the data model with inside
a powerbi remember we talked about phase
number two being the data modeling phase
this would if you hit load that would
jump you ahead to phase number two okay
that's what that's what load would do
here for me the other option here called
transform data what transform data does
instead is it is actually going to
launch the power query
editor with which allows you to
perform data cleansing steps okay so the
option here the idea with the transform
data button is it will allow me to then
uh not only Connect into the data but
then also make sure that I'm actually
getting accurate results returned back I
want to make sure that I have results
that I'm displaying that not only are
pretty and beautiful with inside of a
report but they're actually accurate and
that's a big part of what we're what
we're trying to do here okay and good
question there in the chat looks like uh
manuell has kind of promoted that up we
are talking about that now so load would
be I so let's let's let's word it this
way I would choose load under pretty
rare circumstances generally I would
choose load is uh when I'm connecting
into a data source that really doesn't
have that many data cleansing needs for
example if I was connecting into a data
warehouse which some of you have a data
warehouse probably more of you don't
have a data warehouse but a data
warehouse is a database designed by your
it Department generally that it's
already kind of perfected that's already
gone through a data cleansing steps so
if you're connecting into a data source
that already has those data cleansing
steps done then I would choose load if
I'm connecting into a data source that
still requires me to do some data
cleansing then I would choose transform
data and that's more often what you
would do here transform data is probably
I'd say more than 90% of the time what
you're going to choose when you're
working with inside of this section okay
so I'm going to go ahead and choose
transform data you can do that as well
if you're following along now there are
quite a few of us that are actually
clicking this at the same time so don't
be surprised if uh it may need a little
bit of a uh a little bit of time to be
able to pull this in looks like mine
pulled in pretty quickly here though but
what I'm going to be doing here is I'm
going to walk you through a few small
data cleansing steps that you can do
there's lots of things that we can do
with inside of this editor in fact what
I mentioned just a few moments ago was
when you click on the transform data
button remember I told you it's going to
launch a new window called the power
query editor
and you'll actually see that right here
the power query editor window has been
launched inside of the powerbi desktop
so the powerbi desktop is the
application that we're using but it
launches this new window called the
power query editor that allows us to
perform the data cleansing steps that we
need okay good question uh that just
popped up in the chat as well again from
Antonio let me go ahead and pop that up
uh his question was if you load can you
transform later or do you have to start
over great question if you had chose the
load option that I showed earlier you
can always come back and click transform
data here later on if you needed to as
well okay so if you make a mistake and
you need to come back to this window
that I'm showing transform data right
here will always bring you back great
question all right so now that we have
uh the transform data editor open also
known as power query editor uh we're
going to actually walk you through a few
things with inside of here to perform a
few data cleansing steps now one of the
most rud rudimentary data cleansing
steps that you can do is to remove
columns just bring back the columns you
actually need right so if I wanted to
remove certain columns that are not
necessary then I can do that in a number
of different ways and and by the way
it's worth mentioning that with inside
of the power query editor that I'm
showing right now there's usually about
three or four different ways to
accomplish the same thing so if you have
been working with powerbi for some time
and you're like oh I do that a different
way that's okay uh that's okay that you
do it differently as long as you know
how to do it that's fine there's just
multiple ways to be able to solve
problems here inside of the power query
and powerbi for that matter so the way
that I'm going to guide you through how
to remove columns that we don't need is
I'm going to show you
underneath let me zoom in on this for
you underneath the Home tab at the top
which you should already be looking at
but underneath the Home tab there is a
button here called choose columns and
we're going to select underneath choose
columns we're going to select choose
columns again found right here okay so
underneath home go navigate over to
choose columns right here and then
select choose columns a second time
whenever you press the down button
okay all right so once I do that on my
screen as well we will see a new
dialogue box pop up in the middle of my
screen asking me which columns do I want
to include and which columns do I want
to exclude Now the default is it's just
going to include every single column
you'll see there's a check mark next to
every column uh listed here but the
reason why I particularly like this
editor for removing removing columns
like I mentioned there's more than one
way you can do this but the reason why I
like this editor is if you're dealing
with a particularly wide data set and
when I say wide I mean you have a lot of
columns like some of you might be
dealing with data sets that have
hundreds of columns the thing I really
like about this particular feature for
removing columns is there's a search
capability up top and if I wanted to
look for a particular column I could
type in the column name and it will
return back the column that want to
either add or remove that's one of the
big benefits of using this particular
feature is it gives you the ability to
search for columns and it makes it a lot
easier to find columns as needed as well
now for today's example we are just
going to remove three columns and the
three columns that we want to remove are
going to be the CT column and I'll zoom
in on this in a moment the acquiring
institution column and the fund column
so the three you're going to remove are
these two and this one here as
well so take a moment uncheck those
three columns that I'm showing on my
screen right
now and after you uncheck those three
columns which by the way you can add
them back in later so just because you
remove them now doesn't mean you can't
come back and get them again later but
we're going to uncheck those three
columns and then towards the bottom of
this dialogue box you'll click okay all
right so uncheck these three and then
click okay on the
bottom all right so now that you've done
that you'll go ahead and select okay and
you'll notice the number of columns that
are appearing on my screen have now been
reduced so I now only see four columns
in my list that I'm going to be a have
available to work with now as we make
these changes as we apply transforms to
our data set on the far right hand side
of my screen and when I mean far right I
mean way far over on the right right
here on the far right hand side of your
screen you'll likely see a DOT a pane on
the far right called query settings and
if for some reason you don't query
settings let me show you what happens if
you for some reason close query settings
like mine's now disappeared you can find
it by going under the view menu and
query settings right here this is only
if you don't see it the majority of you
should see query settings but for the
the handful of you that for some reason
don't see query settings you'll go to
view and query settings to find
it all right so what you'll find over
here on the right hand side where query
settings is this is where you can do a
couple things this is where one you can
rename your query right so right now my
query is called Bank list with no space
not a very good name this is also
however below where you can see all of
the data transforms that you've applied
to your data set so we want to make a
couple changes here first let's go ahead
and rename our query so right here where
the query is called Bank list I'm going
to rename my query to something more
appropriate I'm going to call this
failed Banks something like that with a
space spaces are okay here uh by the way
one thing worth noting here spaces in
your column names are okay in powerbi as
well many of you that come from maybe
more of a database design background are
probably used to not putting spaces in
your column names not the case in
powerbi powerbi it's not only okay to
put spaces in your column names it's
actually encouraged because you're
trying to prepare your columns here in
powerbi for what your final end users
are going to want to see and they're
probably going to want to see spaces in
the column
names all right so I can come over here
on the far right and I can rename my
query now the other thing and this is a
question from enena so let me promote
ena's question here Irena asked if I
remove the wrong columns can I add them
back and the answer is yes here's how
you can do that if I made a mistake and
I remove the wrong columns I can always
come back over here to the query
settings pane this is not only the area
where you can rename your queries this
is also Below in the applied step
section right here this is where you can
make changes to any of the transforms
that you performed so to the question if
I made a mistake and I need to go back
and make a change how can I do that well
you can either edit your transform or
you can delete your transform right here
so what these will do this is your edit
button whenever you see the little gear
icon you can edit that step you did and
you can change which uh which items or
which uh uh which columns you removed or
didn't remove and then on the left hand
side if you just realize that you just
flat out want to delete it you can come
over here and you can delete the step as
well so to the question from marinaa
great question you would click on the
edit button that I'm pointing at right
now the little gear icon if you realize
you made a mistake and you wanted to go
add or remove different columns great
question all right let me hide let me
unzoom for a moment and hide that
question there we go all right so the
applied step section is going to become
your friend you'll find a lot of times
you'll go revisit the applied step
section when whenever you make a mistake
or maybe you just need to go back and
make a change to what you did previously
this applied step section over on the
right hand side you will visit quite
frequently all right so now that we've
removed the columns that we don't need
now let's think a little bit more
creatively with how we'll work with this
data and one of the things I know I want
to do is I want to be able to place this
data inside of a map I want to be able
to map my data uh so that way I can see
where all of these failed banks are
occurring
geographically so one of the challenges
with mapping data when you only have
city and state and you don't have like
latitude longitude is often times you
might find that the same city can appear
in more than one state so I happen to
live in the city called Jacksonville
Florida but there's more than one
Jacksonville in in the United States
there's there's uh a dozen or more uh
Jacksonville within the United States
and so what I want to do is I want to
make sure that whenever we refer to
Jacksonville or Columbus or what name
name the city right I want to make sure
that it's very clear on which
Jacksonville or which Columbus Ohio or
Columbus Georgia we're talking about so
what I'm going to walk you through is
how you can combine two columns together
now again like I mentioned earlier
there's often times there's more than
one way to accomplish this Pro solve
this problem I could select both of the
columns I can click on the column names
up top here and multi select them by
holding control and then I could write
click and merge them that's one way you
can do it but I want to show you a
slightly different way to solve this
problem uh and the reason why why I want
to show you this different method is
because I think it'll get the wheels
turning on some other things you might
be able to do when you're working with
inside of the power query editor okay
now the feature that I want to show you
is called
column from example and what column from
example does is it allows you as a
developer of this query to provide an
example of what you end you want what
you want the end result to look like
stumbling over my words there a little
bit but I got it out so if I want to
combine the city and state together I
would feed into this column from example
feature an example of what I want the
results to look like if I wanted it to
be City comma State I would do something
like that and then powerbi will figure
out the pattern of what I'm trying to do
with the data and then it will replicate
it for every Row in my data set so it's
a really neat feature um it's a really
powerful feature that leverages some AI
capability behind the scenes to be able
to find patterns and what you're doing
and then replicate it for every Row in
your data
set all right so let's go ahead and do
this uh the column from example feature
can be found by going underneath the add
column tab found right
here and then after you expand the add
column tab you'll select column from
examples and then from all columns right
here okay I'll keep this on my screen
for a few seconds but again you feel
free to pause me at any point even
though this is a live event you can
pause me rewind me YouTube allows you to
do that all right so we're going to go
up to add column column from example and
then from all columns okay now by
selecting that what's going to happen on
my screen is we're going to see a new
blank column appear over on the right
hand side so there's this new empty
column right here nothing is inside of
it yet it's simply a blank column that
we're going to be able to use and what
we're going to do with it is in the
blank cells with inside of that column
we're going to provide an example of
what we want the end result to look like
so if I'm looking at this at a row level
here so let's say I'm looking at this
particular row right here what I would
do is I would type into this section the
example of the city and state combined
together so to give you a little example
what this looks like let me zoom in on
this for
you I'm going to come into the cell in
underneath column one this new column
we've created and I'll double click to
get the cursor to appear with inside of
that cell and you can use the
intelligence here to help you out a
little bit but I tend to find it's a
little better just to type it so I'm
going to go ahead and type in
almin comma with a space Kansas the
abbreviation for Kansas and after I
provide in that sample result and I hit
enter it's going to determine what I'm
trying to do and it's going to
replicated for every Row in my data set
so it it figured out powerbi was smart
enough to figure out that oh you're
trying to combine the city and state
together and so what it did was it
merged those two together with inside of
this new column based on the example
that we provided again all I did was to
reproduce that just to show you again I
typed in almina let spell it right
spelling does matter here by the way so
if you misspell it it won't work but I
typed in Alina comma Kansas hit enter
and then every row below had this new
result that came through now while we're
here we can also rename the column you
can rename columns later as well but if
you ever want to rename a column all you
have to do is double click on the column
header so right here where it says
merged if I double click on that I can
type a new name on top of the old name
and replace it so if I want I can rename
this instead of calling it merged I can
call it city state something like that
so I can give the new column name just
by double clicking on the column header
and typing a new name on top of the old
name okay all right so let's go ahead
and click okay once we're done with this
now you can go ahead and click okay I
want to show you one thing in the top
left here
in the top left you'll notice that what
powerbi has done for me it is it figured
out the pattern of what I was trying to
do and then it actually wrote what's
known as M query M query m stands for
mashup by the way but it wrote some M
query behind the scenes for us to be
able to process the data transformation
that we're trying to do so what you're
seeing Right Here is known as
inquery M query is used with inside of
the power query editor I think I saw
this question pop up earlier let me see
if I can actually promote
it yeah here we go I'm going to promote
this question that it came up earlier I
was waiting for the right time to answer
it now's a good time to answer it uh
there was a question is Dax the same as
M and no they're actually different from
each other what m is used for is more
for data cleansing data Transformations
data shaping whereas Dax the opposite is
used for more analytical calculations
that you're trying to build so think of
M as your data cleansing language which
by the way you're probably not writing M
by itself very much you're probably
using this user interface to do a lot of
the M code for you uh but Dax is one
that you probably will get a lot more
Hands-On with and Dax is going to be
used for more of those analytical
calculations that you want to build so
think of Dax as like I want to be able
to know and compare this year's Revenue
to last year's Revenue to be able to
determine what last year's Revenue was
you're going to need to know how to do
that in Dax using a function like same
period last year kind of thing okay all
right so good question there earlier I
held on to it I wasn't ignoring your
question just wanted the right time to
answer it so let me go ahead and get
that
cleared uh uh
oh Manuel can you figure a hi current
comment there we go got it all right so
that's now that we've kind of got an
understanding of that so it's writing M
here for us and there is a question man
Antonio is killing it with these great
questions here not not to pick on his
questions a lot but he's got some really
good ones Antonio asked the question can
you modify or import mcode you
absolutely can do that I'm not going to
go too deep into it today but I will
show you where to go uh I want to make
sure we kind of keep on Pace where we
want to be uh so Anton I'm Gonna Keep
your question up on my screen for a
moment I will answer that uh but before
I do let me go ahead and make sure I
walk everybody through the next step
that I haven't done yet I just need to
Simply click the okay button here and
that will finalize the column that I've
created okay so I'm going to go ahead
and click okay and that will create that
new citystate column all right so
Antonio's question that I still have up
on my screen is can you modify
the M code that's written and you
absolutely can modify it if you want to
modify the M code for any reason you can
do that underneath the Home tab so you
would go underneath home and actually
there's two different places you can do
it uh you can go underneath home and
then you can select Advanced editor
right here and I'm not going to open
that today because that'll take us down
a rabbit hole I don't want to go down
for a beginner course but you can modify
the be the M code by going to the Advan
editor you'll also notice I have this
little formula bar right here I can
modify the M code in the formula bar if
for some reason you're not seeing the
formula bar you can find the formula bar
by going underneath the view menu right
here and that will allow you to expose
the formula bar if you're not seeing it
for some reason okay all right good
question all right so now that we've got
that new column created for city state
I'm ready to start presenting these
results in a report I want to be able to
visualize this data I want to be able to
answer a question here and many of you
that have attended these sessions with
us may already be familiar with this
data set so you may know but one of the
common things let's see if we can make
this a little interactive and if you
already know the answer don't don't
answer here with me let's let's play a
game here I want to know which state and
this is all us data by the way US state
which US state is going to have the most
failed Banks answer in the chat let me
know which one you think which US state
is going to have the most failed Banks
just for fun let's have a little fun
with it here and see if we can answer uh
which one we think is going to have the
most failed Banks okay all right so we
got a couple answers starting to come
through all right I'm I'm purposely
asking it right now before you can uh
see the answer on your screen so we got
some good guesses Texas Illinois
California Louisiana we've gotten lots
of good uh good guesses come through all
right so how can we answer the question
if I want to know which state has the
most failed Banks how can I figure that
out well I can figure that out by going
up to first we have to get out of the
power query quer editor so don't forget
right now at the moment we are inside
this tool called the power query editor
but what we want to do is we want to now
take the data that we have been working
on and load it into our data model so we
can actually start to build some visuals
on top of it okay we got lots of good
guest that's continuing to come through
on which state people had or think had
the most failed Banks so here's what I
want to do if I want to see which state
has the most failed Banks I need to load
this data into my data model so I can
actually build a visual on it so to do
that I'm going to go up to the top left
underneath the Home tab if you're not
looking at home already you'll want to
go to home and we're going to select
close and apply and then select close
and apply again all right now let me
explain what close and apply means here
to make sure this is really clear for
you when you select close and apply what
close means is it's going to close the
power
query editor all right don't forget
right now we have this power query
editor open right here when we click on
close it's going to close the power
query editor now what apply
means apply means it's going to load the
results of your
query into the data
model now before we can actually use
this data we need to get it loaded into
the data model and so what the apply
portion of the close and apply does is
it loads the data into the data model so
we can actually start to use it okay so
that's just to be clear close and apply
closes the power query editor and it
loads the data into our data model all
right so I'm going to go ahead and
choose this on my screen if you're
following along I have on my screen
right now what I'm about to do I'm G to
go to home close and apply and close and
apply again all right so I'm going to do
it on my
screen home close and apply close and
apply all right our goal here is I want
to figure out which state is going to
have the most failed Banks so let's see
if we can figure out which one has the
most failed banks for us here now what
you'll notice in the middle of my screen
right now is it's loading the data into
our data model and there's not a whole
lot of data here but it should load in a
pretty small data set right 563 rows is
not a very large data set but it's
loaded in all of the data from that CSV
file into our data set now if it fails
or it has a problem loading for you just
give it another try the reason why you
could have an issue loading it in is we
have you know several hundred people
that are watching this at the same time
and if we all try and do this at the
same time as you can imagine it may be a
little slower pulling that data in but
once you load the data in what you'll
find on the right hand side of your
screen is under your Fields list found
right here you now have this table that
appears for you so you now have a failed
Banks table that's available and I'm
seeing lots of people in the chat have
now figured out the right answer they
good um of which state has the most
failed Banks and that's what I want to
do with you is I actually want to guide
you through how to create our first
visual from the table that I'm showing
on my screen right now to be able to
actually see the answer to that question
question of which state has the most
failed Banks okay all right so let's go
ahead and show you how to build a visual
so if I want to build a visual answering
the question which state has the most
failed Banks we can do that by going
into the visualizations pane found right
here so here's your visualizations Pane
and the visual that I want you to build
with me is going to be a bar chart this
is a stacked bar chart right here and if
you're following long you can go ahead
and select the stack bar chart that I'm
showing and highlighting right now on my
screen and then we're going to start to
add in some Fields into that stack bar
chart together here in a few moments but
the first step that we're going to do
together is you're going to go ahead and
select that stack bar chart that I'm
pointing at right now all right so I'm
going to go ahead and choose that and
select that on my
screen and you'll notice over on the Le
hand side of my screen that this new
visual appears with inside of my design
canvas and you can resize it you can
reshape it you can move it around by
grabbing it you can really kind of place
it wherever you want but what I want to
do is I want to start to add in some new
Fields into it so if I want to add new
fields and by the way it's telling me to
add new Fields right here right it says
select our drag fields to populate the
visual what it's telling you to do is
you need to go over to the fields list
and start to bring in various Fields
into this visual so you can actually see
some results now if I want to see some
results in this visual the first thing
that you need to be aware of is you have
to select the visual so one thing to be
uh cognizant of is you can select either
the background of your report and you'll
notice it deselects the visual or if you
click on the visual you now have it
selected the reason why I'm kind of
emphasizing this and why it's important
is because if you don't have the visual
selected like if I click in the
background here powerbi thinks I'm going
to try and create another new visual
with the visual selected powerbi thinks
I'm trying to edit the visual which is
what we're trying to do right now so
your big clue to know whether or not you
have the visual select is you'll see
these little anchor points appear around
the edges that's how you know you have
the visual selected and you can start to
actually add things or change the visual
itself if you don't see those little
anchor points around it you don't have
it selected all right so with the visual
selected we're going to go work our way
over to the fields list on the right
hand side so here's our Fields list
right
here and with inside of the fields list
we're going to expand the failed Banks
table now sounds like lots of you have
already done this you're a little ahead
of me no problem we're going to go and
go up to and expand the failed Banks
table so you'll see this little Chevron
here a little arrow that you can click
on that will expand or collapse the
table with inside of the fail Banks
table we're going to be creating and
bringing in a few of the fields into the
fields list right here okay so we're
going to be dragging and dropping Fields
over in this
area all right so what we're going to do
is we're going to take first the state
column because we want to know which
state has the most failed Banks we're
going to grab the state column and we're
going to drag and drop it into the Y AIS
now I should mention this if
your uh if your powerbi desktop doesn't
say y access if it says access and
values that means you're running a
pretty significantly old version of the
powerbi desktop and I would recommend
that you go update because you're going
to find there's a lot of things
different if you're running that old of
a version uh but so just a heads up if
your says something slightly different
right here that means you're running an
older version of the tool hopefully
everyone says y AIS and xais and you're
going to drag the state column into the
y- axis and we're then going to bring
the bank name column into the xaxis and
the reason we're bringing the bank name
into the x-axis is for the time being I
just want to do a simple count to count
all of the failed Banks count all of the
number of banks that I find here all
right so I'm showing on my screen right
now what I'm about to do so you're a
little ahead of me but go ahead and drag
in state into y- axis and Bank name into
xaxis all right so let me go ahead and
do that on my own as well I'm going to
drag the state into the y- axis and I'm
going to drag the bank name into the
xaxis and if you missed a step there you
can go ahead and Rewind the video watch
it again make sure you're up to speed
with what we do that what what we just
did now you'll notice when I dragged in
the bank name to the x-axis it
automatically did a count of Bank name
that's because whatever you put in the X
AIS is going to need to be aggregated in
some way uh what I mean by aggregated is
uh an aggregate is like a count a sum A
Min a Max an average something like that
those are that's what an aggregate is
and you can change the aggregate that's
used by clicking the little down arrow
here and I can change between a account
and account distinct right now because
I'm looking at text I can only really do
counts on it but if it was a number
value I could do an average I can do a
Min a Max a sum those are things that
you can do on integers whereas on a text
column I can either count or do a count
distinct
all right so now that we have that in
here I can zoom out and we can see that
those of you that answered in the chat
Georgia Georgia was the state that had
the most failed Banks we can see that on
the top right here Georgia the the the
leader I don't know if they should be
proud about this one but Georgia Then
followed by my home state so I'm not GNA
make fun of Georgia because I'm right
behind them with Florida uh Illinois
California Minnesota Washington kind of
round up the top five or six there so it
kind of shows you here what what's
interesting about this and I did a lot
of talking to get us here right we've
been we've been going for an hour but
this is this shows you how you can go
from having no data at all remember we
started this session with nothing and
then we kind of built out where we can
actually start to now start to see
visuals come together that we can use
and we're very quickly able to answer
questions like which state had the most
failed Banks I didn't know the answer to
that until we built out this solution
and now we can very clearly and easily
see that Georgia was the state with the
most failed Banks very cool
okay all right so uh I think think we're
looking good here now the next thing
that we're going to do is we're going to
start to merge into phase number two all
right so phase number two is going to be
our data modeling phase all right so
we're starting hour number two it's
probably a good time to start phase
number two phase number two is all
around data modeling and how to ensure
that we create relationships between
multiple sources it's also where we can
do things like create hierarchies and
where we can write Dax calculations now
um menwell if you could hopefully you
have the link handy and if not I think I
have it handy here as well uh we're
going to share a link to a three-hour
class very similar to like what we're
doing today around data modeling and it
was done what by one of my colleagues
and and Manuel's colleague Mitchell
Pearson it's a great session it's three
hours just like we're doing today on
nothing but data modeling so data
modeling is a very very important part
of powerbi in fact it's often an element
of powerbi that people Overlook even
though it's probably one of the most
important things you can do in data
modeling so I want to I want even though
I'm only going to have so much time to
cover it today I want to make sure you
have that three-hour resource and
menwell is also shared a secondary Link
in there to a I would say a a another
good more compact version of that if you
don't have three hours to learn about
data modeling follow the second link
that he put in the chat it's about a 24
minute video those are both really good
but it's all around designing a data
model to make sure that you have a
proper design and solution for building
your reports later on okay so those two
videos that were shared in the chat one
is uh by Mitchell that's the three-hour
one one's by Manuel it's about a 25
minute one they're both very good uh but
it's a very important part we're only
unfortunately going to have just a
little bit of time to dig into it here
today uh now we're at a good point for
question I see Matt uh uh Manuel is uh
keying me in on a question here from
Matt Matt asked the question how do you
change the table heading from count of
Bank Name by state to something more
userfriendly that's a great question
Matt and you asked it at a great time so
if I wanted to be able to rename either
the let's say for example what we see
down here on the the uh the X sorry yeah
the x-axis on the bottom or maybe we
even want to change the title of the
visual that's certainly something you
can do so to Max question if we wanted
to be able to adjust things like the
names with inside of our visuals we can
certainly do that and there's a couple
different ways you can do that and I
I'll take this question then we'll kind
of move on to our data modeling section
if I wanted to rename that to say total
Banks instead of count the banks I can
do that by going over to my Fields pane
here's your Fields pane right here right
and then from with inside of your Fields
pane you can go down to where you see
count the bank name underneath the x
axis and I saw some people saw they they
noticed that their X and Y axis was
flipped just make sure you put them in
the right slot right put the state and
the Y AIS and the count to bank name and
the x-axis but if I wanted to rename
this instead of showing count a bank
name you could either go and rename it
inside of your model that would be
inside the table or a more temporary
solution is I can go ahead and rename it
right here so if I were to double click
where it says count a bank name I can
rename it just for this one Visual and I
can rename it something like total Banks
right here and if I double click on that
it gives me the ability to rename it
again that's only renaming it for this
one visual if I wanted to have a
different name for all visuals then I
would go and I would rename it with ins
side of the field list over here on the
right hand side I double click on it
here and I can give it a totally new
name from the
table but if I zoom out notice now
whenever whenever I go to look at my
visual it now says total Banks down here
instead of count the bank so much better
a better way more userfriendly as Matt's
question indicated there more user
friendly way to be able to uh display
and and show uh new columns but renaming
it in one place only does it for one
visual rename it in the table does it
for the entire data model that's kind of
the difference
there all right so let's talk about data
modeling here now let's shift gears a
little bit and start to talk about
building out a proper data model now
right now as you can see we only have
one table with inside of our data model
you can look under your Fields list and
you can see we have one table called
failed Banks but traditionally you're
going to have more than one table in a
data model and that's really where I
would I would reference you to go look
at those links that men well shared to
the three hour uh data modeling session
or the 25 minute data modeling video to
learn more about how to kind of properly
model your data but one of the things I
do want to show you at least for today
for our session where we're covering a
lot more topics is how you can add in
more than one table and then also we're
going to talk a little bit about the
significance of a particular type of
table with inside of your data model
called a date table all right so for to
have this discussion for a moment I'm
going to go ahead and bring my
whiteboard up up on screen
like so and I'm just going to draw on
the screen here for a little bit and
we're going to be talking about a date
table all right so let's first of all
talk about what is a date table all
right so a date table is often something
that you will have with inside of your
BI Solutions and I'm specifically saying
bi not just powerbi other Solutions
outside of powerbi that are considered
business intelligence Solutions will
oftentimes also have a date table and
the reason why a date table is so
helpful and and and can help you in your
design is a couple reasons so let's
let's talk about first of all the why
why do I need to have a DAT
table
Okay the reason why it's helpful for you
to have a date table there's I'm going
to give you three reasons but there's
probably even more reasons than this but
the reason why a date table can be
really helpful with inside of your
Solutions is one maybe you're trying to
analyze very specific types of dates so
let's say for example you have
special dates you want to analyze
or let's say you want to compare so what
do I mean by that let's say you want to
compare holidays or you want to compare
weekends or weekdays or any other type
of special dates that you might care
about there's lots of other examples you
could probably come up with so let's say
for example you're a retailer in the US
uh the you in the United States and and
many other countries I think have
adopted it over time but there's a lot
of special sales holidays like Black
Friday or uh Cyber Monday right those
are huge sales holidays with inside of
the United States and many other
countries as well and if I wanted to be
able to compare this year's sales on
Black Friday versus last year's sales on
Black Friday or Cyber Monday I probably
need to have some indicator with inside
of my date table letting me know when
that date occurred this year compared to
when that date occurred last year
because the the actual date itself is
going to change it's always a Friday or
it's always a Monday but that the date
itself is going to rotate or change a
little bit based on the year and so
having a date table allows me to be able
to monitor special dates or when it was
a weekend or when it was a weekday
that's one of the reasons why you might
consider having a date table another
reason why you might consider having a
date table is if you're dealing with a
fiscal
calendar okay so some of you are
probably familiar with what a fiscal
calendar is others may not be uh but a
fiscal calendar is something that
oftentimes your accounting team will use
to be able to uh do budgeting across a
year but the years are often times
different than a traditional calendar
for example Microsoft small little
company known as Microsoft right kidding
of course they're huge uh but Microsoft
uses a fiscal calendar that begins in
July okay so what that means is if you
ask Microsoft for as far as their fiscal
calendar goes when does the year begin
they're going to tell you the beginning
of July is when they started the year
2023 as far as their fiscal calendar
goes okay and so their fiscal calendar
ends in on June 30th and so the the
fiscal year of 2024 would begin on July
1st for them coming up so there's a lot
of companies that use fiscal calendars
Microsoft is not the only one many of
you probably do as well and the reason
why it's helpful to have a date table is
a date table will help you map a
traditional calendar date to a fiscal
date and so with inside of your date
table you'll have a list of your
traditional calendar dates and then
right next to it you'll have a fiscal
period and a fiscal year and a fiscal
quarter so that's why it's really
helpful to have that's another reason
why it's really helpful to have a date
table is when you're trying to anal
analyze things over a fiscal
calendar all right the third reason and
a very popular reason why you would
consider having a date table is if you
are trying to design Dax time
intelligence okay so let's spell that's
always fun when you miss misspell
intelligence uh but Dax time
intelligence time intelligence is with
inside of the uh data analysis
expression language that's what Dax is
again as reminder but using the time
intelligence functions with inside of
Dax allow you to be able to compare
period over period or a 12-month rolling
average or if you wanted to really do
any kind of time analysis you generally
need to have a date table first before
you do it there's some time intelligence
functions that you can do without a date
table but there's some others that are
really beneficial for you to have that
date table that you created that you
designed that has your fiscal calendar
in it to be able to do that time
intellig
analysis so when I say time intelligence
I'm talking about things like analyzing
year to dat or quarter to dates or maybe
I want to look at uh year-over-year
or maybe I want to see a 12month rolling
average something like that those are
examples of time intelligence functions
you might build into your data model and
it's far easier to do those if you have
a date table already okay all right so
now that we answered the why that's why
need to have a date table let's answer
the question of how do you create a t
date table how do I get a t how do I get
one okay so there's a couple different
ways you can get a date table one you
can import a dates
table from your data
source so if you're connecting into a
data warehouse for example uh by
connecting into a data warehouse your
data warehouse likely already has a date
table and you would simply connect to
that date table and use it with inside
of your model so step number one there
or option number one would be I have a
date table in my data Boy base and I'm
just going to connect to it because it's
already got all the things I need so
that would be the easiest example the
easiest option but it's not maybe
necessarily the most common option not
everyone is going to have a date table
they can pull from from with inside of
their data source
already okay so that's one thing to
consider if your data source has a date
table great use it if not then you need
to consider other options all right so
let's talk about what what the other
options are and menu well if you can get
handy there should be a URL to a date
table script uh if you can share that in
the chat that will go along with the
next little item here so the next thing
that you could do is you could create a
date
table using power query and more
specifically using the M formula
language all right so you can use M
query to be able to design your own date
table and Manuel is going to share a
link in the chat to a Blog that I wrote
a number of years ago that will actually
create a date table for you
automatically all you have to do is copy
and paste my code and there it is you
put it in there now but you can copy and
paste my code inside of that blog and
you can bring it into Power query and it
will create a DAT table for you I
particularly like that method I think
it's a great method for creating a date
table however we won't be using that
method today and the reason why I'm not
going to be using that method today is
because I want to show you the third
method which is Dax uh the I really want
to get you a little bit of a peak into
what Dax is because it's so much more
commonly uh needed uh than the inquery
option the the writing inqueries is
something that's done far more rarely
than writing Dax and so I think this is
a great opportunity for me to show you
how to write Dax by using uh uh by
creating a date table so I'm going to
guide you through that but uh Manuel did
share a link in the chat if you're
interested and learning about how to
create a date table using M query follow
the link he put in the chat and that'll
kind of take you there all right now the
third option which is what we're going
to be doing in our example today is
we're going to design a date table using
Dax again Dax being the data
analysis expression
language okay and again the reason why
I'm going to show you the Dax method I
actually kind of like the power query
method a little bit more but the reason
why I want to do the Dax method today I
think it's a great way to help you learn
Dax a little bit in a beginner session
like today um and we're going to be
exposed into some of the basics of
writing Dax by using that method today
so both methods are fine by the way
really there's not a right or wrong
answer to which of the bottom three you
choose you can choose to import it
that's fine you can create it with it a
power query that's fine uh you can do it
with Dax that I'm which is what I'm
going to be showing you today that's
equally fine there's not a right or
wrong answer to what you choose here
okay now there is a question the in the
chat and unfortunately because I'm in my
drawing mode here I won't be able to uh
go go promote it but uh how is this
different than the auto date table so
powerbi does create a date table behind
the scenes for you to do some things the
read and thank you men for promoting
that uh the reason why I prefer to
create my own date table as opposed to
using the auto one is for some of these
top reasons we mentioned here uh powerbi
does kind of create a little bit of a
secret date table behind the scenes for
you uh and uh it's it's great that you
have that option available to you but my
preference is to create my own date
table so I have a lot more control over
it so I can have my own special columns
that I want to be part of it nothing
wrong with using that date table that's
created for you but it's kind of hidden
from you you don't actually see the DAT
table that powerbi creates for you uh
whereas this one is much more visible
and you can design it you can do
whatever you want with it okay all right
so if you want to screenshot of these
notes now is a great time to take it
because we are going to be moving on
into our next section here uh in in this
next section I'm going to show you
exactly what we just described here I'm
going to show you this method right here
of how to create a date table that's
what we're going to be covering next
okay all right and and uh there's a
comment in the chat there is a great
thirdparty I'll go Ahad and promote this
they're uh there it's uh from sqlbi they
have a great tool called Bravo uh and I
believe it's a free tool um that will
actually create a date table for you as
well definitely check that out that's at
SQL bi.com uh they're another great
company by the way they do some of the
same stuff we do but hey we're we're
friendly with them uh they have a great
tool called Bravo out there that will
actually create a date table for you all
right but I'm going to show you how to
do it on your own let's say you don't
necessarily want to use another tool I'm
going to show you how to create a date
table on your own and we're going to be
doing it using the Dax method that I
talked about earlier all right so if I
want to create a date table on my own
what the way I'm going to guide you
through doing this is to go navigate
over on the left hand side we're going
to go navigate over to the data view
found right here so if you're following
along with me go to the data view on the
left hand side to be able to follow
along
okay all right so I'm going to go ahead
and select the data view that little
icon on the left and this is by the way
what the data view does is it literally
shows you a view of your data it's kind
of like a readon Excel you can't you
can't come in here and change any of the
data you can read it all you can't
change it necessarily but you can look
at it and the thing I like about this
view is when you're creating a date
table with Dax is it'll actually allow
you to see the columns and the data
behind the columns that you're creating
as you go so what we're going to do is
we're going to start by creating a new
table again we went to the data view so
if you're following along make sure you
select the data view here with us first
and then under the data view we're going
to go up to the top and select table
tools it should already be open by
default and then we're going to select
new table right here so we're going to
create a new table with Dax by selecting
the new table option under theath table
tools
and we're going to be doing this using
Dax all right so I'm going to go ahead
and select new
table and when we do that this is going
to be our first exposure into the Dax
formula language here okay so with
inside of the Dax formula language this
allows us to be able to create
calculated formulas calculated tables
calculated measures to be able to
enhance our model and create new objects
that our users can take advantage of
whenever they're building out reports
now the way that this is exposed with
inside of the tool is you'll notice this
new formula bar appears at the top of my
screen and to make this a little easier
to see I'm going to zoom in on this and
for those of you on a Windows device
you'll use the control key in your mouse
wheel if you want to zoom in or zoom out
of that formula bar Control Plus Mouse
wheel will allow you to zoom in and zoom
out okay all right so over here now in
the formula bar a couple things I want
to point out to you everything to the
left left of the equal sign right here
everything to the left of the equal sign
is going to be the name of our object so
the name of our table the name of our
column the name of our measure whatever
it is we're working on and then
everything to the right of the equal
sign is going to be the definition of
that objects okay so what I mean by
definition is this means Dex so you're
going to name it to the left of the
equal sign and then to the right of the
equal sign we're going to uh
actually uh provide the definition of it
okay all right so here's what we're
going to do is in that formula bar we're
going to go ahead and rename the table
so where it says table we're going to
rename it instead of calling our table
table we're going to go ahead and rename
the table to be called calendar and I'm
gonna zoom in on this even more just to
make sure it's really clear for you I'm
going to go ahead and type in
calendar
okay all right then that's going to be
the name of our new table and then to
the right of the equal sign we're going
to need to write the Dax that will
Define what our table is going to return
back and we're going to use a particular
function called calendar
Auto okay now the calendar Auto function
which you can see on my screen right
here what it does is it scans all of the
date columns you have with inside of
your data your data model so it's going
to look at any date columns I have with
inside of my data model and what it will
do is it will create this continuous
list of dates continuous meaning there's
no breaks there's no there's no missing
dates but it's going to create this
continuous list of dates into a new
table for me it's going to start at the
very first day of the first year that I
have with inside of my data model and
then it's going to end on the last year
of the it'll just end on December 31st
of the last year I have with inside of
all my date values so calendar Auto
automatically generates this list of
date values inside of this new table
okay and I see a question why are we
creating a date table you may want to
rewind the video a little bit we did
some whiteboarding where we talked about
the why uh you can go back a little bit
and we answer that question of why we're
doing this all right so I'm going to go
ahead and select calendar
Auto and uh by the way this is called
intellisense let me briefly mention this
as I start to type in the name of the
the function I want to use this is Dax
and you'll notice this little section
right here this is called intellig
and it's designed to help you write Dax
so if you're not really familiar with
writing Dax you can leverage this
intellisense to help you be able to
return back values that you know if
you're not an expert in Dax and you
don't know every single uh function
that's available to you then you can use
the intelligence to kind of guide you
through uh writing it here if you need
it
okay if the intelligence isn't working
for you uh unfortunately I can't share
screens with you to see what's going on
but you may want to just uh backspace a
little bit try again all right but we're
going to go ahead and type in calendar
Auto and I can actually click on it
right here if I wanted to and underneath
calendar Auto this would allow me to be
able to return back that special
calendar Auto function okay and if I go
ahead and do a close parenthesis on this
that would close out this function now
one thing worth noting there is special
capabilities with calendar Auto if
you're dealing with a fiscal calendar
remember we talked about fiscal
calendars earlier that that's one of the
reasons why you might consider using
this function because you can tell it
when is the end of your fiscal year when
you use the calendar Auto function now
we're not going to be taking advantage
of that capability today but I did want
you to know that there's some
capabilities when you're trying to build
out a date table and include fiscal
values with
it all right so we're going to go ahead
and type in calendar Auto and do an open
and close
parenthesis and uh I'll tell you what
I'll do I'm actually going to put my
calculation here in the chat for you so
for those of you following along you'll
be able to kind of look in the chat and
I put my function there but I'm going to
use this calendar Auto function to
return back a list of all of the date
values that I could use with inside of
my data set okay now again all calendar
Auto did was it scanned the date columns
that I have and we do have one date
column called closing date and it
returned back and it uh returned back a
list of all of the possible dates we
might need this is a distinct list
meaning it's a unique list of date
values that we have available to us with
inside of this new column that got
created for us right here so you can see
this new column called Date got created
after we use that calendar Auto function
okay all right very good uh question in
the chat what if we need two more years
to do some forecasting or something like
that so uh calendar Auto might not be
the right answer if that's the problem
that you're trying to solve so the
question that's popped up below my face
right now is what if I need need Beyond
just the current years that are
appearing whenever I use calendar Auto
in that case you might want to use a
different function called
calendar but not calendar Auto but just
calendar and what the calendar function
would allow you to do is you can pass in
specifically which start date and end
date you want to have whenever you're
using the calendar function so there is
an alternative there if you uh need to
have future dates as well then that's
kind of what you can do to be able to
manage
that all right very good so now that we
have this new column and new table
created by the way you can see my new
table over here called calendar it
appears you'll notice the little cal
calculator icon on it that tells you
that little calendar uh calculator icon
indicates that it is a
calculated table so it indicates to you
that it is a a table that was created
using Dax uh if you see that little
calculator icon on it right now our
calendar table only has one column but
we're going to add a few other columns
to it is as well okay so if we want to
add in a second column in a third and a
fourth column we'll actually have a
total of four that we create here if we
want to add in another column into this
data set we can do that by going up to
the table tools tab
again and this time we're not going to
click new table because we already did
that this time we're going to create a
new column so for those of you following
along we're going to create a second
column here and we're going to do that
by going up to table tools and then
selecting new column
all right so I'm going to go ahead and
select
that all right so what this is going to
do is it's going to pop open another new
formula so if you look up in the formula
bar here you'll notice it's kind of
blank again waiting for us to create a
new column and what we're going to do is
we're going to create a uh a year column
I want to have a column that parses out
the year from the date so if I wanted to
create a slicer or a filter where I just
wanted to filter on the year 2022 or
2023 or 2024 whatever the Year may be I
want to have a column where I can select
which year that I want to filter on so
back inside the formula bar up at the
top here we're going to rename the
column remember my tip for earlier
everything to the left of the equal sign
is the name of the column everything to
the right of the equal sign is going to
be the definition of that column so to
the left of the equal sign we're going
to rename this column
year and then to the right of the equal
sign we're going to uh give this a
proper function and don't worry we will
take a break here shortly I see uh we're
going to take a break right at an hour
and a half which which is about five
minutes uh so the year function or the
year column that we're going to do is
we're going to leverage the function
called year with inside a powerbi and
you'll notice there's lots of other
functions in powerbi that leverage year
capabilities like same period last year
or previous year or start of year lots
of other functions you can use here but
the one that we're going to use is the
year function and we're going to pass
into the year function a date column
okay so using the year function we can
pass in our date column that we see
right here and the way that you
reference a date column is you reference
really any column Name by using square
brackets so think of brackets like this
that's a bracket and that's how you
refer to a column name with inside a
powerbi so if I use the square bracket
getting a little over ancy there with my
brackets if I use the square bracket
you'll notice intelligence immediately
tries to help me out and it lists all of
the column names that I have with inside
of this table that I I could potentially
select
from so what I want to do is I'm going
to select the date
column and you could type it in there if
you want rather than selecting it like I
did you'll notice Intellis since
continues to try to help you out you can
ignore this additional help that it's
trying to do and just do a close
parentheses so what we what we did here
is we said that we want to parse out the
year from the dat
and I want to only return back the year
all right I'll put that in the chat for
you as well well so yeah to Sydney's
question here square brackets is equal
to column names now sometimes you may
also want to refer to the table name as
well Ina just in case that same column
name exists in multiple tables you can
also refer to the table name as well if
you use single quotes So it would look
something like this this is optional the
the table name is optional here but but
if you want to be very precise with how
you refer to column names you can first
refer to the table name which is called
calendar and then the column name is
going to be in Brackets table names and
single quotes column names and brackets
all right but the the table name is
actually optional here we don't have to
do it unless you really want to refer to
the table name okay all right yeah if
you missed something just go ahead and
Rewind a little bit you can rewind the
video and catch back up all right so
we're going to create two more columns
before we take our break uh to create
another column we're going to do that by
going back up to table tools again okay
so I'm going to go back up to table
tools and underneath table tools we're
going to select new column again right
here okay we're going to create two more
columns so I'm going to go back up to
table tools and select new
column and in this third column that we
now have we're going to name this
one month
number and there's a specific reason why
we're calling it month number that will
come into play after our break so hang
tight I'll I'll answer the questions of
why we're creating a month number column
we're going to also create a month name
column here in a few moments as well so
I'm sure there'll be some questions
around why we have two month columns I'm
leading you a little bit into our demo
after our break so uh just call this
one's going to be called month number
and then to the right of the equal sign
we're going to define the month number
column using the month
function and remember we used the year
function in the previous example this
time we're going to use the month
function
here and just like we did last time
we're going to pass the date column into
it so if you would like to put the table
name in it I saw some people like uh
some people in the chat like to put the
table name in it as a best practice no
problem you can put the table name in it
uh so table name would be calendar and
then the column name that we're going to
refer to here is going to be our date
column
all right so all we're doing in this
example again is we're saying here's our
month sorry here's our date column I
want to parse out the month number from
the date and that's what we have on our
screen right now is we're using this
month function to say return back the
date the the sorry return back the
number of the month from the date that
we're looking at okay so yours should
look something like this I'll put this
in the chat for
you so if you want to copy my code from
the chat you should see it in there as
well all right so now that I have that
new column created we're going to create
one final one before break and this one
is going to return back the name of the
month so I want to have the month number
but I also want to have the month name
so we're going to create one final
column again going back up to table
tools we're going to select new column
for the final time
here okay so I'm going to go ahead and
do it on my screen as well table tools
and then new
column and menuel there should be a
reference I gave you a link to if you
don't mind sharing that here coming up
uh it's going to be to more information
about the format function if you can
have that handy uh but what I'm going to
use this time is we're going to name
this fourth and final column that we're
creating we're just going to call this
month you can call it month name if you
want but I'm going to just leave it as
month by itself and then what I'd like
to do with this one is I want to return
back the name of the month rather than
the number of the month and there's
going to be some reasons for us having
both of these columns that we'll discuss
later but we're going to start by
creating uh a new function using the a
new column created using the format
function
okay all right so we're going to go
ahead and using the format function
we're going to tell it that we want to
format that date column that we created
earlier so we're going to refer to that
date column and we're going to format
the date column in a particular way I'm
going to use four lowercase
M and using those four lowercase M that
will allow us to format the month
spelled out so if I hit enter now you'll
notice that it creates this new column
for me called month and then all of the
values here are returned with the
spelled out month name I could also do
three lowercase M and it'll bring a
month abbreviation I could optionally do
three lowercase Ms with y y y and it
will bring back the month and year so
you got a couple different options there
but what we're going to do for our
example is I'm just going to return back
the month name but the point is I want
to show you how the format function has
a lot of different options available to
you I would certainly recommend
exploring that link that Manuel put in
the chat for you there's lots of other
ways you can use that format function
Beyond even just dates you can use it
for other purposes as
well
okay all right very good well uh we now
have our date table created we have our
four columns our date column year column
month number column and month column now
we are going to take a break so we're
due for a break we're about an hour and
a half in a little bit more than an hour
and a half we're going to take a
10minute break and then when we come
back from break we're going to keep
moving forward we got a few other things
we're going to talk about but let's go
I'm going to put a 10-minute timer on my
screen so you know when to return back
I'll see everybody back in 10 minutes
and uh good luck so far see you
then
e
e
e
e
e
e e
[Music]
n
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
e
e
e e
all right everyone we are ready to come
back I'm going go ahe and take this off
my screen and I want to share a few
things as we come back from our break
hopefully that break was timely for you
I saw quite a few people were were ready
for a break as so was I uh but what I
want to talk about briefly as we return
back is if there is interest for
additional training obviously pragmatic
Works hopefully many of you are already
familiar with us but our sole focus is
centered around training and education
that's everything that we do at
pragmatic works is focused on that now
for those of you attending today's
session uh and this is we do have a
special offer that's going to be center
around our live top boot camps so if you
like the idea of live training if you
enjoy uh in-depth training obviously
today's three-hour class I will not be
able to make you an expert in powerbi in
three hours however we definitely have
the tools to be able to get you there
and so I want to share with you I'll
pull this up on my screen here for a
moment uh we have going on through the
end of this month you can let me hide
this I'm not sure if you're seeing that
or not but there we go but going through
the end of February you can look at any
of our boot camps and get $250 off so if
you have an interest in being able to
attend some of our live training we do
have a lot of live boot camps that we
teach we have three different boot camps
that we teach on powerbi we have a more
traditional powerbi boot camp that's
four days long we have a Dax boot camp
that's four days on nothing but Dax so
if you really are eager to learn more
about Dax I would certainly recommend
our Dax boot camp and then we also have
uh a pagea reports boot camp as well
that's a three-day course and so if
you're looking to go more in depth into
any of those areas pagein dat reports is
part of powerbi uh we have many
different boot camps on those different
types of courses and so when you go to
our website I'll pull up our website
here in just a moment but when you go to
our website and you select a boot camp
you can put in the code L WTN learned
with the Nerds 250 and that will get you
$250 off our your boot camp so just to
give you a little peek at that uh these
classes I see questions are they in
Dubai these are all virtually taught uh
so they are virtually generally taught
in Eastern Time Zone uh but you can find
we have a pretty big list of boot camps
that are coming up on a variety of
topics not just powerbi but we have some
on Azure uh power apps t-sql t-sql by
the way is a great skill to learn even
for powerbi developers I would certainly
recommend going through our offerings of
boot camps I'll put this link in the
chat so if you want to take a peek at
boot camps we offer you can scroll
through see which one's appropriate for
you but these are really designed to go
in depth go go beyond the basics of what
we can do in a three-hour session or
even a one-day session and check check
out what we have there and see if that
might be a good fit for you uh we have
many different boot camps that are
coming up and again that discount that I
put on my screen I'll pop it up one more
time just so you can see that again that
discount is good through the 28th of
this month but you can schedule them for
boot camps that go till the end of April
so uh keep that in mind that is 2023
make sure in case someone's watching
this as a recording a year from now it's
uh 202 three is when that's four all
right very good well thank you so much
if you have questions on those as well
feel free to uh I'm sure our team will
be happy to answer any kind of questions
around the sale in the chat so that's
available U for your uh for for any
questions you might have all right great
so I'm going to take that off my screen
now thank you so much for listening and
being patient for for hearing about our
boot camp offering what I want to
continue with now is to get back to the
demonstration that we left off on and uh
what we're going to be focusing in on
over the next half of our day is we're
going to be looking at our data model
and data visualizations and then we'll
wrap up with the powerbi service so we
got quite a bit to cover in an hour and
a half here so we will at times go a
little faster and don't don't worry
don't don't forget this is recorded you
can always go back rewind a little bit
and go back to see something again as
well okay all right so we left off we
created our date table this on my screen
right now is exactly where we left off
and then what we're going to be doing is
we're going to uh uh go a little deeper
into what do we now do with this date
table so we created this date table now
what do we do with it right so I want to
be able to leverage this date table with
inside of my model I want to be able to
actually see the uh results of my date
table with inside of a visual so if we
want to actually leverage this date
table we created in a visual we're going
to work our way back over to the report
view right here this is the report view
okay
all right so if you're following along
with me navigate back over to the report
view for a moment and inside the report
view what we're going to do is we're
going to create another new visual okay
and if we want to create a new visual we
need to make sure we click in the
background of the report okay don't have
the other visuals selected and with no
other visuals selected we're going to
create a quick little column chart to
show us the number of failed banks by
month for example so if I go to select
the Stacked column chart right here that
will allow us to Monitor and show by
month the number of failed banks that we
want there's lots of other visuals we
could choose we're going to go ahead and
select the Stacked column chart for this
example all right so I'm going to go
ahead and select stacked column
chart and that will bring the stack
column chart on our design canvas here
and we can reshape it or resize it
however you want I'm going to lay it out
kind of like this like so and with
inside of my stack column chart I can
start to bring in new Fields into it
right so just like we did in our first
visual it's all about dragging and
dropping the visuals into the design
Canvas OR into the fields pane the the
visualizations pane so that way you can
start to build out uh your Visual and
actually get data return back in your
visual so what I'd like to do in this
example is I'm going to go over to my
Fields list on the far right so this is
our Fields list on the far right over
here again we're in the report view now
and I'd like to be able to see the
number of failed banks by month so to do
that I'm going to drag in the month
column into the x axis like so and I'm
going to bring in the bank name column
right here into the Y AIS just a little
bit lower below it and just as we saw
earlier where we saw the count to banks
by State this now should return back the
count to banks by uh by month
okay all right all right so I've showed
you on my screen what I'm about to do
now let's actually do it myself so I'm
going to go ahead and bring in the month
column down into the xaxis like so and
I'm going to bring the bank name column
down into the Y AIS like that okay so
your screen should look like what you're
finding right here xais has month y AIS
has count to bank now if I zoom out for
a moment you'll notice the visual that
it creates probably is not what we
expected we're actually seeing the same
number of banks appearing for every
single month this would appear as though
563 failed Banks happened on every
single month clearly that's not right
and so this is actually uncovering a
problem in our data model the problem is
that there's no connection between the
two tables that we're using so if you
look over on the field list you can see
that we're using the calendar table and
the month column and we're using the
failed Banks table and the bank name
column however the thing that we're
missing and Jackie is right on in the
chat there is we need to create a
relationship between those two tables by
default it did not create a relationship
for us some sometimes powerbi can do
that but in this scenario it didn't
actually create this relationship
between the two tables for us and the
result of that is we see the same number
of failed banks for every single month
not quite what we
expected so if I want to be able to fix
this problem we need to pay a visit over
to the model view on the left hand side
so on the left hand side of my screen
right here we're going to go to the
model view and from with inside the
model view that's where we can create
relationships if they don't already
exist okay and again by creating this
relationship the the problem that we're
trying to solve is that we see the same
number of failed banks for every month
that's the problem we're trying to solve
here all right so if you want to follow
along with me we're going to go over to
that model view that you see right
here I'll go ahead and select it on my
screen as well and the model View kind
of looks like a database diagram right
it's going to show you a diagram of all
of the tables that you have with inside
of your data model you can zoom in on
this by the way if you use your uh hold
down the control key and use your mouse
wheel you can zoom in on this a little
bit to make it a little easier to see
but what I'd like to do is I want to be
able to create the relationship between
these two tables now the question for
you is probably how do I know what the
two uh how how do I know how do I Define
the relationship between these two
tables and here's the thing you really
have to think about from your point of
view when you're doing this on your own
what you need to ask yourself is this
question what is the commonality between
these two tables what is the thing that
both of these two tables have in common
and when you look at it pretty closely
you'll probably be able to figure out
that the commonality between these two
tables is the date right you have a date
column in the date the calendar table
and you have a closing date column in
the fail Banks table that's really the
commonality between those two tables or
the two tables we're looking
at so if I wanted to create a
relationship between these two tables we
can do that by simply dragging the date
column and when I say drag I mean you're
going to click on date and you're going
to click and drag date on top of closing
date right here click and drag one on
top of the other now a common question
that we get will can is can you drag
closing date on top of Date and
absolutely you can do that powerbi is
actually smart enough to figure out what
direction the relationship needs to go
regardless of which direction you drag
the
relationship so what happens after you
do that drag and drop and let me show
you that one more time what happens when
you drag closing date on top of Date
you'll
find that it automatically designs the
relationship for you it automatically
creates the relationship for you and
you're seeing that on my screen here
that line that relationship line between
the two tables is the indication that
these two tables are able to communicate
with each other now when you hover your
mouse above the line you'll actually see
that it highlights The Columns that are
the basis of the relationship so when I
put my mouse above the line notice that
it highlights the date column and the
closing date column those are the
columns that are the basis of the
relationship here
okay so there's a great question and I'm
going to go ahead and pop this up from
Marty Marty asked the question that
they've seen double lines occasionally
double arrows so what you might be
noticing on my screen right now is I
have this single arrow pointing right
here and so the question is what is that
what does that mean uh that Arrow
indicates the direction that filters can
occur so whenever you go to build a
report and you say that you want to
filter the number of fail banks by year
you're allowed to do filters going in
this Direction only based on on how the
relationships are designed right now
that's what this little uh Arrow
indicates that's the direction that
filters are allowed to navigate the
direction that filters are allowed to go
if you see double arrows double arrows
would look like this don't worry about
how I'm getting it just want to show you
if you see double arrows like this
that's what Marty's talking about that
means that filters can go in either
direction you can filter fail you can
filter down calendar from fail Banks and
you can filter fail Banks from calendar
either Direct is allowed there now there
are some extra implications of you
having that turned on we don't really
need that for today I'm going to leave
it back how it was I just wanted you to
know that's the difference that's what
the arrow means there the arrow
indicates the direction that filters are
allowed to be applied which Which Way
can they go okay good question let me go
ahead and hide that one all right so the
other thing that's worth noting here is
the indicators that you see right here
and right here this is what's known as a
one to many relationship or many to one
the the way that it's aligned right now
but let's the more common way of
phrasing it is this is a Ono many
relationship what a one to many
relationship means is that the column
from our calendar table that's our date
column and the column from our fail
Banks table that would be our closing
date column have different instances of
how many times they can appear when you
see one the one side of the relationship
that means that the date column is
unique meaning you're never going to
have the same dat date appear more than
once with inside the calendar table
however closing date is not
unique because and it kind of makes
sense right you can think about it if
I'm allowed to have more than one Bank
Clos on the same date so it's not
possible that my failed Banks closing
date would be unique because I very
likely have had some banks that happen
to have closed on the same date so
that's what the one to menum means it
means that you have unique set of values
on one side of the relationship and not
unique uh set of values on the other
side of the relationship now this is
where I would highly highly recommend
that you review that data modeling and
well maybe you can share it again we
have a three-hour session specifically
around data modeling where we talk much
more about the different types of
relationships uh I wish I could go more
in depth into it today we have a lot of
other things that I want to cover though
but what I will mention is that one to
many relationships are the most
desirable type of relationship to have
in powerbi there are other types that
you can leverage and use there's many to
Min there's one to ones uh those are
less ideal uh for a number of reasons
that I wish we had more time to talk
about today but generally speaking one
to many relationships are what you want
to aim for whenever you're building out
your model are there exceptions to that
statement absolutely there's there's
certainly exceptions to that statement
but generally speaking uh you want to
try and stick to one and many
relationships and that's where that idea
of a star schema comes into play a Star
schema is where you have traditionally
many different on to many relationships
and menwell did put the links to the the
uh YouTube class I was referring to uh
and the shorter video in the chat if you
want to go back and refer to that again
later all right so we have designed
what's known as a one to Min
relationship it's Unique in the calendar
table it's not unique in the failed
Banks table and that's the way we want
it for this
example all right so now that the
relationship is created we can actually
go back over to the report view up in
the top left right here so we can go
navigate back over to the report View
and we can see now that the relationship
has been created it will fix part of the
problem that we have in the column chart
we created a few moments ago there's
going to be some other problems we need
to fix as well but this uh first problem
of seeing the same number of values for
every month has now been fixed by
creating the relationship so let's go
navigate back over to the report
View and you'll notice when we look at
our column chart that now it shows a
different set of values for every month
we're not seeing 563 failed banks for
every month anymore now it's showing a
little bit more the way we would
anticipate it to show here now that
we've done that okay looking
good all right now I did see someone
else identified a problem earlier in the
order of the columns in the column chart
they notied that the months were not
sorting the way you would traditionally
think they would sort and so that's the
next problem that we're going to walk
you through is how do I fix the sort
order now the sort order problem is
really kind of a it's both a data
modeling problem but it's also a
specific problem with the visual itself
that we can fix as well and so we're
really going to walk you through both
how do I fix uh the sort order of the
visual and then how do I fix the sort
order of the data model those are really
two different problems we're going to
discuss here
all right so to fix the sort order of
the visual we're going to go hover above
the
visual like so so have your mouse
hovered above the visual and you'll see
there's this little three dot menu in
the top right it's called more options
we're going to select more options and
underneath that three dot menu when you
click on it you'll see there's a sort
access that you can modify and the
change that we're going to make here is
we're going to tell powerbi that we want
to sort by the month and that we also
want to sort in ascending order so we're
going to make those two changes right
here and right
here now when you do this after you
change one of these two settings the
menu will clear out and you have to come
back into it a second time that's why
I'm kind of drawing on my screen right
now so that way you have an idea of what
you're going to end up doing after we
make these two two different
changes all right so here's what we're
going to do again we're going to click
on the three dot menu select sort app
access and we're going to sort by
month then you'll notice that it does
change the sorting by month however it's
sorting alphabetically in descending
order so we need to also go back into
that three dot menu click more options
select sort access and choose sort
ascending okay so those are the two core
changes we need to make here sort by
month and sort
ascending all right so I'll go ahead and
select that and you'll see now that it
does change the sort order of our visual
however the sort is probably not the way
you thought it would sort right it looks
like it's sorting based on the month
name not the month number okay and Randy
has a comment in the chat you know it
would great be great if we could also
accommodate year in here some way
absolutely we might put in a year slicer
we might do a couple things in here
because right now this is showing the
number of fail banks for every year the
way that it's uh laid in here right now
so you could add other things in here uh
Randy is absolutely right about that I
would put like a slicer or something
like that in
here all right so here's what I want to
do I want to now that we see it sort by
month I want to also make sure that it's
sorting by the chronological order
rather than the alphabetical order right
we would never want to sort it this way
this doesn't make sense as a way to
actually sort your data instead what we
want to do is we want to sort it
chronologically so to the question right
here in the chat that's what we're going
to be covering next how do we fix it so
it sorts chronologically rather than
sorting alphabetically okay so let's
talk about how to do that to change the
way that it sorts chronologically this
is really more of a data modeling
problem than it is a problem with the
visual the previous problem we fix by
going into the properties of the visual
and changing the sword order to change
how the column itself behaves then we
can actually show or change the data
model to ensure that it actually
properly sorts chronologically or by the
month number remember I told you the
reason we were creating the month number
column would come back later it's coming
back now uh now we're going to use and
leverage that month number column we
created and here's what we're going to
do let me whiteboard this briefly the
steps that we're going to do is we want
to display the month
name but sort
by month number and that's what I'm
going to walk you through how to set up
here in this next little mini demo this
is a pretty small one okay so if I
wanted to display the month name but
sort by the month number what you would
need to do is you're going to go
select from your calendar table from the
calendar table you're going to select
the month column click on it not the
check mark But actually the name of the
column and by selecting the month column
we can then change the sort order of
that column by using a certain property
that I'm going to show you next so your
first step for following along is you're
going to go over to your Fields list on
the far right and you're going to click
on the name not the check mark But the
name of the column called month from
your calendar
table with that column selected you can
see it's highlighted on my screen right
now with it selected we're then going to
go up
to the column tools tab up top now if
you're not seeing column tools that
means you didn't do the previous thing I
just showed you you're not going to see
the column tools tab up top unless you
first select the month column so if
you're not seeing column tools on your
screen make sure you go back over here
and select the month column first
without that you're not going to see
column
tools all right so with the month column
selected we're going to go up to column
tools right here and there's a property
called sort by column right here and
what this column allows you to do is you
can display whichever column you
selected earlier but then you can sort
by a different column and what I want to
do is I want to sort by the month number
while still displaying the month name
all right so that's what we're going to
be doing in this little mini example
here so for those of you following along
don't forget select the month column
first then come up to column tools right
here select sort by column and choose
month number and that will allow you to
display the name of the month but sort
by the number of the
month all right so let me go ahead and
do that on my screen as well well I'll
select month number and watch what
happens to our visual now look at that
that looks beautiful right we can see
January February March April May all
sorting the way you would anticipate
they should sort whenever you look at
date data right so looking pretty good
there great all right so looking like we
got that set up uh I'm trying to see I
think I actually answered a bunch of
these questions that uh you start so I
think we're good there all right so
let's do this now that we've got the
data sorted here properly and
everything's starting to come together
the next thing that I want to show you
is how you can create calculated
measures okay so before lunch or before
lunch before our 10-minute break I
should say we created a set of
calculated columns with inside of our
date table right with inside of our date
table we created a month column a year
column a month number column but we
haven't really explored measures yet so
that's what I want to do with you in
this next section is walk you through
creating and sorting not creating and
sorting but creating measurement data
okay and very briefly I want to
whiteboard with you and describe the
difference
between calculated
columns and calculated
measures
okay and I'm going to make some
generalizations here there's definitely
some exceptions to what I'm going to
describe here so don't hold me to a
strict definition of each of these
because there's definitely uh except to
some of these rules I'm about to tell
you now calculated columns are like the
dates table we created earlier remember
in the date table we created a year
column we created a month column or
month number column and then we created
a month column at the end those were all
calculated columns that we created okay
so these are examples of calculated
columns um oh thank you looks like I'm
misspelled calculated I saw someone put
it in the chat that should be a d thank
you um but calculated columns are kind
of fundamentally different with how
they're used generally speaking again
I'm making some generalizations here but
generally speaking calculated columns
should be used or are used for more
descriptive type data okay what I mean
by that is something that describes a
metric of some kind okay again there's
exceptions to this but I'm trying to
make some generalizations so that it's
easier to understand the difference
between these
two so calculated columns more for
description type data calculated
measures are a little bit different so
calculated measures are going to be used
for more metric data okay so when you
think of metrics generally metrics are
going to be numeric in nature right
you're going to have some kind of
numeric value uh their calculated
measures are often generally going to
have some kind of an aggregate value
that go along with them okay so they're
going to be aggregations if you're not
familiar with what an aggregation is
that's something like a sum A Min a Max
an
average uh standard deviation account so
on and so forth you kind of get the idea
those are examples of aggregations
so generally calculated measures are
going to be different because they're
metric values you're trying to you're
trying to measure something right get
that's where the word measures comes
from they're generally going to be
numeric although there are even some
very rare exceptions to that and then
they're going to have some kind of an
aggregate that goes along with them I'm
trying to sum count min max average that
sort of thing so we don't have a ton of
time in today's class for me to show you
a bunch of measures but I want to show
you at least one I want to give you a
peek at how you create a measure and as
we go through that you'll see how it's a
little bit different than how you create
columns it's not a lot different but it
is a little bit different uh in how you
would create calculated columns like we
did earlier in this session so here's
what we're going to do I'm going to
create a new measure and the way that
I'm going to create a new measure is by
going over to my failed Banks table so
I'm going to go over to the right hand
side and look at my Fields list now I
will mention this if had a lot more time
there are some special tricks and best
practices around creating measures some
people actually like to create a whole
separate table for measures that stores
only the measures and nothing else I
actually think that's a great practice
we're just a little limited on time to
show every little nook and cranny of
things you can do here but if you're
familiar with uh creating like a
calculation table it's it's a great way
of organizing your measures so everybody
can so any of your users that are
developing reports can go look in one
place and see the measures that are
available to to them I'm not going to
have time to do that today but just know
that you can create tables that their
sole purpose is just to store measures
that is a common practice and a way of
organizing measures for today's class
for interest of time we are going to
create a measure with inside of my
failed Banks table so with inside of my
failed Banks table that we already have
I'm going to rightclick on my failed
Banks table right click right
here and select new measure okay so
again we right clicked on the name of
the table in our Fields list so right
click
here and then we're going to select new
measure after we do that right
click
okay all right so I'm going to go ahead
and do that on my screen as well I'll
right click on fail Banks and select new
measure now when we do that what's going
to happen up on the top of our
screen is just like what you experienced
earlier this morning remember this
morning or before our I say morning I
realize people are watching from
different time zones uh but if I go up
to the top here you'll notice that the
formula bar now has a new calculated
measure ready for me to write and then
everything to the left of the equal sign
is going to be the name of our measure
and everything to the right of the equal
sign is the definition of our measure so
what I'd like to do is we're going to go
ahead in rename our measure I'm going to
come up to the top
here and I'm going to rename our measure
to the left of the equal sign and I'm
going to call it total
Banks and then to the right of the equal
sign we're going to create a measure
that returns back the count of banks now
there's lots of different ways we can do
this but for Simplicity for today I'm
going to use a function called count
rows do note though there are lots of
different count functions that are
available to you notice here there's a
really big list of different count
functions you can use the one however
we're going to use for today's example
is Count rows which allows us to count
all of the rows with inside of a
particular table and the rows that we
want to count are going to come from our
failed Banks
table so remember from earlier we talked
about single quotes or how you identify
a table name and we're going to tell it
that we want to count all of the rows in
our failed Banks
table like so and that's it that creates
this count rows function for us if I
want to or if I want to I'll I'll
actually share that function in the chat
with you so if you want to have that
handy you can grab that from the chat
but now we've created a measure and the
benefit of creating this measure is it's
now uh reusable you know remember before
we were dragging in the bank name into
different places well that didn't really
make sense to do it's not it's not Bank
name we really want to see a total count
of Banks and so while we were kind of
leveraging the bank name earlier to do a
count like you see right here really
what we should have been doing was we
should have created a measure like we
did now and we should have used that
total Banks measure instead of just
counting the number of banks that's a
better practice for a number of reasons
uh one it's better because it's now
reusable and I can Nest it inside of
other calculations I create later two
it's also beneficial because I can do
specific formatting for it up here and
it saves that formatting and that
formatting is then reusable and it's uh
it doesn't necessarily help that much
more with performance or anything like
that the benefit here is not performance
related it's more from a usability
standpoint it makes your life a lot
easier to do this as a calculated
measure versus a calculated column the
difference performance wise is pretty
pretty nominal uh but the the the the
making your life easier benefit is a
much much better better way to go okay
all right so if I wanted to take
advantage and actually show this measure
and action I could create a set of
visuals or another Visual and I could
start to bring in some of the things
that we've done here or I could even
replace the count the banks with inside
of the other measures by simply
selecting the visual and when I select
the visual I can then change out of
which particular fields that we're using
okay so you can see right here I have
count to bank name I could get rid of
that and I could swap in instead I could
bring in the new Total Banks measure
that we created that you see right
here okay now the net result is it
should look almost exactly the same as
what it looked like before that's kind
of the point uh but it makes it so it's
much more reusable and I can Nest this
calcul calculation or calculated measure
inside of other measures I create in the
future as
well
okay all
right very good all right so I think
that's about I want to make sure we have
time to get into the data visualizations
as well as time to get into some of the
powerbi service uh elements later on as
well so we're going to call call it into
the data modeling section for today and
what we're going to shift gears into
next is the data VIs visualization
aspects of powerbi now the good news is
we've already gotten a head start here
right as we've been working with inside
of powerbi we have actually explored
many of the different data visualization
elements as we've been going but I want
to add to that I want to spend some
specific time talking about just data
visualization best practices and
different design elements that you might
want to consider for example let's say
that I wanted to uh enhance or change or
modify the visuals that we've used so
far in some way you can modify the
appearance of the visuals that you're
using so far by first selecting the
visual so you'll need to click on the
visual and with the visual selected you
can then modify it by going over to the
format section over on the right hand
side that would be found right here
again don't forget you first have to
select the visual to modify the visual
but with the visual selected if you want
to change the appearance of the visual
say for example the font or or the
colors used or something else you can do
that by going up to the format button
found right here and this allows you to
format the visual that we have selected
right now so I'm going to go ahead and
select the format button and again you
need to have the visual selected first
but with the visual selected if I go
over to the format button I then have
the ability to modify the visual through
a number of settings that are made
available to me in this section right
here uh there are two different tabs you
can kind of toggle back and forth
between you can look at the general
settings where you can change things
like the title so if I want to change
the title I can do that here or you can
look at the visual settings and
underneath the visual settings you can
do things like add in data labels so if
I want to add in data labels to my
visual I can do that by going over to
the data label section underneath the
visual
modifiers and again how did I get here
well I got here by clicking on the
little format icon right here you have
to have a visual selction
first so if I want to add on data labels
I can click on the data label button
found right here and that will make my
visual or allow my visual to Now display
data labels with inside of it and when I
turn that on notice you can now see data
labels that appear above every one of
the columns in the column chart looks
pretty good looks really good now you
can also modify those data labels if I
expand the data label section I can
modify and say hey instead of seeing
those data labels um in a certain
position let's actually change the
position of those data labels to
show inside the end of the column chart
and when I do that you'll notice now all
the data labels are actually inside the
columns in the column chart they were
above previously so the point is you
have lots of different things you can do
to kind of go in and modify the
appearance of your visuals uh that's
just one example adding data labels but
the way that we found that the way that
we got to it is by selecting the visual
right here and then going over to the
format button right there and you'll
find lots of different options as far as
changing the colors changing the font
adding data labels that's all found
underneath the format section with
inside of powerbi and the change that we
made was we turned on data labels
okay now I show you that because I
really want to lead you into a more
advanced topic around that just a little
bit more advanced so what's nice is that
you can change your visual appearance
but wouldn't it be great if you could
change the appearance of all of your
visuals at once okay maybe I really want
to modify every one of my visuals at
once and and have a set standard color
scheme a set standard font type I wanted
to basically standardize the way that my
reports are designed and you can do that
using a feature called themes so that's
what I'm going to show you next is a
little bit about how to leverage and use
themes so themes are again the purpose
of them is to standardize the look and
feel of the reports that you create so
they're all using the same colors
they're all using the same font same
background color same primary color all
of that you can modify with inside of a
theme and the where you're going to go
and I think this is going to answer
Antonio's question Antonio you you got
like the hot hot mic here on questions
uh Antonio's question is can you import
color schemes and yes uh you can you can
actually we'll we'll give you a little
peek at that here in a few moments as we
discuss themes uh but absolutely you can
kind of modify the colors that are being
used you can customize the colors you
can use HTML colors there's all kinds of
different things you can do around
colors we'll talk about that as we go
through this next little
demo all right so let's talk about
themes how do you create a theme how do
you modify a theme how do you export a
theme that's all what we're going to
discuss in this next
section so themes are something that you
create by going underneath the view menu
inside the powerbi desktop so up on the
top I'll zoom in on this so you can find
it up at the top you'll find there's a
view menu and Under The View menu
there's a section here devoted to themes
right here and if you want to change the
theme you can change to one of the
default themes that are provided to you
or you can make your own Theme by going
underneath the theme section right here
all right so we're going to show this in
action as on my screen as well again
we're going to go under the view menu
and select the themes section right here
when we expand the theme section you'll
see this whole new area pop up on your
screen and you'll see there's some
predefined themes that you can select
from right here some of them are good
some of them are okay uh there are some
one for accessibility reasons that have
been added there's ones like color blind
safe themes which are kind of nice and
then there's some other themes that are
are kind of interesting uh maybe you go
with the the very bright purple theme
I'm not sure if that's one you would
select but maybe in reality you want the
ability to create your own theme so if
you want to create your own theme you
can do that by going down to the section
on the bottom again this is uh Under The
View menu and you expand the theme
section here you'll see there's a
section here called customize current
theme on the bottom left or towards the
bottom left and if you select customize
current theme that allows you to be able
to modify a theme modify and create a
theme of your own and then to Dan's
question I'm GNA go ahead and promote
Dan's question here for a moment Dan
asked can you import a theme used on
your company's website so basically what
happens and I'm going to walk through
portions of this as we go through short
answer is yes you can import a theme
that someone else has created however it
does have to be created with inside of a
Json file Json file is just basically a
way of storing the metadata for how the
theme is going to appear so short answer
is yes you can import a theme can you
import it from your website uh it may be
it may be a little bit different than
how your website themes are stored but
I'll show you you kind of get the the
picture of how that's done here as we go
through this
demonstration all right so what we are
going to do is I'm going to select that
customize current theme option found
right here okay so I'm going to go ahead
and select customize current theme and
that's going to pop open a new dialog
box in the middle of our
screen in the middle of our screen we're
seeing this option here where we can
customize the theme that we have
selected and I can make any kind of
modifications to the colors that are
being used you can name the theme you
can do all sorts of stuff now you don't
have to follow me exactly here if you
want you can you can make your theme
look different than mine uh normally
what I would do if I was teaching this
class live as I say all right I want you
to make the ugliest theme possible we're
going to have a competition of who can
make the worst looking theme just for
the fun of it but unfortunately you
won't be able to share your theme with
me so you'll just have to look at my
Ugly theme all right so here's what
we're g to do I'm gonna go ahead and
start by naming the theme up at the top
no one is really going to see this name
other than internally with inside the
powerbi desktop so I'm going to call
this theme our learn with the Nerds
theme okay you can call it whatever you
want it's really only going to appear
that name only appears inside the
powerbi desktop your users will not know
that then I'm going to change some of
the colors so I can change any kind of
color palette that I want here so there
was a question earlier can you import
colors you really have kind of the world
as your oyster when it comes to Colors
because when you try and change one of
the colors here you'll notice you can
put in RGB colors you can put in HEX
code colors you have lots of options as
far as the kind of colors that you can
select from here I'm going to go again
I'm trying to create a pretty uh gnarly
ugly looking theme here I'm going to go
with kind of an orange looking color
here okay all right so I got an orange
color is going to be my primary color
used with inside of my theme now you
could change the other colors here color
two color three four 5 6 seven eight you
could change those if you wanted to we
really don't have a need to do that
you'll notice we're really only
leveraging one color inside of our
design here so I'm going to leave it as
color one and then we're going to move
on to some other things now you can also
change the text if you go over here on
the left hand side you can modify the
text options if I go ahead and select
that you can standardize the text font
families that are being used so I could
change here this to a different font
type by the way a common question is can
you select a font type that's not listed
here there is a little backdoor way of
doing it there's uh it's going to create
a theme file for you that I mentioned is
called a Json file and you could
actually pass in other font families
that are not listed here through that
Json file so there are some little backd
door ways to even expand beyond the font
families that are shown here but for the
time sake I'm going to go ahead and
select
aerial for our font
family all right then I'm going to go
down to the visual section on the left
hand side I'm not covering every element
of this just kind of highlighting some
of the brief areas I think are most
interesting to you I'm going to go to
the visual section here next and I'm
going to add a background color to every
one of my visuals so I'm going to change
the color of my background to maybe kind
of like a gray color here so that means
every one of my visuals is going to have
this nice little gray background color
to them okay
and then I'm also going to change the
Border I like adding a border to my
visuals it makes it stand out a little
bit so I'm going to add a border right
here and by selecting the Border section
you can turn on borders for every one of
your visuals so it's going to put a
border around your visuals that you can
choose from or you can see now one
property here that I particularly like
is this radius property and what that
will do is it will actually show you
it'll it'll allow you to see like a
rounded Edge to your border rather than
like a sharp right angle like you
traditionally see with borders you can
actually make this kind of like a
rounded Edge border if you add in some
kind of pixel or radius here to your
your um border that you're creating okay
there's lots of other things that we
could play around with and change and
modify but I'm going to leave it like
this I don't want to get too crazy and
I'm simply going to hit apply down at
the bottom okay so I'll hit
apply when I hit apply you'll notice
that the theme takes over and it
replaces all of the settings that I
modified now with the changes that I
have from my theme file so we're going
to see the visuals now following the
standards of having a border having a
background color using primary color of
this kind of orange color that I'm using
and it just allows you to again the
purpose of this is kind of standardize
the look and feel for the report design
that you've done that's kind of the main
goal of creating the theme okay now once
you create the theme you can then save
it you can then share it with others and
that way you can make sure that everyone
in your organization is following the
same standards that you've come up with
okay so if I wanted to export the theme
that I've just created I can do that by
going up to the theme area again again
this is going to be underneath the view
the view menu up top so View and then
we're going to expand the theme section
right
here and inside the theme section there
is a button called save current theme
right here that's your way of exporting
the theme so I would select this to ort
my theme it will then allow me to save
it as a Json file and then I could use
that Json file and hand it to other
colleagues that I work with and then
they would be able to use the same theme
that I created so this is how you would
export the theme and then one of my
colleagues who takes the theme from me
the file that I create they would select
browse for theme to then import
it okay so the three steps we have here
we already did this one this was to
create the
theme that was step one we created the
theme then we can go export it and then
when we hand the exported file to
someone else they can then import it
using the browse for theme section right
there
okay all right very cool all right so I
I wish we had a ton more time to get
deeper into the theme section that's
unfortunately all we're going to have
time for because I have a few other
things I want to show you but the theme
are great for creating this
standardization across all of your or
ports that you design make sure that
everyone's following the same standards
that you have come up with or that
someone at your organization has come up
with to ensure there's there's there's a
uh wise choices made when it comes to
the design pallets that are used here
okay all right so very good now that we
have done that now that we've created a
theme one other really fun thing we
could do is we can add in background
images and we could add in different
colors we could add entitles to our
report so one of the things that I
actually have provided to you this is
really one of the only things that you
will get benefit from with inside of the
class files that I provided is I have
given you a background image so Manuel
if you don't mind sharing the uh share
the class files one more time in case
someone did not get the class files from
earlier the class files have inside of
them an image that I've created that can
be used as a background to our
report and so with inside of those class
files that I provided to you let me
bring those over here with inside of
those class files you'll find that there
is a completed files
folder which includes the example that
I'm showing you right now there's also a
completed theme and then there's a
background image that I'm going to be
showing you here for the next very
little little miniature example that
we're going to do so we're going to add
a background image to our report so that
way we can make this layout a little
smoother a little nicer as we go through
this next set of
examples all right again that's in the
class files Manuel has shared a link to
those class files in the chat you can
grab them
there
okay all right good deal so now what
we're going to do is we're going to show
you how to implement that background
image so if I want to add a background I
can do that by first make sure you have
no visual selected okay so I have no
visual selected right now okay
and if I have no visual selected and by
the way I see Linda's question I'm just
going to pop this open for a moment
because it's a quick one to answer Linda
ask how do you reset the theme back to
the power to the powerbi theme I would
just simply come back up to the top here
Linda and you can select the default
theme right here so I would go back up
to view expand themes and this is the
default one that we started with that
will send it back to how it was if you
want to revert this back to where you
started uh let me take myself off camera
so you can actually see that
but you'll see that option is right here
that's the default theme you started off
with and that'll revert You Back by the
way there's also an undo button in
powerbi you can go up to the top left
you'll find there's an undo button and
that will revert you back to what you
had before as well it's a good question
lend I just wanted to make sure I that
was a quick one I glanced over and
saw all right so background image I want
to add a background to my report if I
want to add a background image to my
report I can do that by going over to
the format
pane right here now you do before you go
over here you need to make sure you have
no visuals selected make sure you don't
have any visuals highlighted selected
being used in any way so you'll notice
right now I have nothing selected how do
you know if you go to click on a visual
you'll see those little anchor points
around the edges tell you that you have
a visual selected so I'm going to make
sure I deselect and have nothing
selected at the moment and if I go over
to the format section with nothing
selected right here if I click on the
format button now I can actually add in
a new uh background to my canvas so
you'll see there's a section here called
canvas background and if I expand that I
have the ability to add in a background
image right here and I'm going to go
browse to the image that I was showing
you just a few moments ago from the
class files if you don't have the class
files downloaded right now that's okay
just use any image doesn't matter I just
want you to see the fact that you can
add in a back image to your report so
I'm going to go ahead and browse to add
a file and I'm going to navigate to the
class files where I have an image called
background image okay uh good question
from in Ino I'll come to you here in
just a moment I'm going to go ahead and
select background image and hit
open now uh Ingo I'm going to come back
to your question but so I don't forget
it I'm going to pop it up on my screen
here in just a moment actually let me
start it so I don't forget your question
uh but um you'll notice after I add that
background image nothing appears yet and
the reason why nothing is appearing is
because this bad boy right here right
now the transparency is set to 100%
which means even if I have a background
image it's going to be transparent at
100% which means you're not going to see
it I don't know why that's the default
setting I wish it wasn't but you can
taper that down by moving that dial down
to more like 0% or maybe you make it
something smaller you can kind of figure
out what transparency makes sense but
100% transparent means you're not going
to see it at all so hang keep that in
mind you don't want it to be 100%
transparent the other thing that I'm
going to do is where it says image fit
image fit right here it's set to normal
right now I'm going to change it to fit
my image to the the canvas and if you
change this to fit instead of Phill or
instead of uh the default there notice
now we have we're actually able to see
the full image when we change it to fit
to screen rather than it just basically
take over the whole interface here so
using the fit option which let me show
you how I did that one more time we went
under the format section we went to
Canvas background and we changed the
image fit here from normal to fit and
that made it so we can see the entire
image previously the image was kind of
being spilled over into an area we
couldn't see okay all right so starting
to come together looking pretty good so
ingo's question in the chat was around
what's the difference between
wallpaper and background here what's the
difference between these two all right
so let me promote that question up here
so you can see so the difference between
those two is wallpaper is the continuing
area beyond the canvas so if you look
kind of where my arrow is way down here
this white space here wallpaper
continues on beyond the canvas space
whereas background is only the area that
you see in the middle of my screen right
now so I used a background so you're
seeing the background of my report
change to be an image wallpaper even
goes beyond the canvas into this Whit
space area you see lower on as well so
uh that's the difference there uh why
would you use wallpaper versus
background well you might have some
circumstances where you you know
whenever you're working with inside the
tool you want to continue to see
whatever image it is even Beyond it it's
really going to only apply when you're
in the desktop tool um that's the
primary area at least where you'll see
it you might actually you could see it
in the the web experience as well just
depending on the resolution you have
turned on so it's basically area Beyond
where you're actually going to have
visuals that's the
wallpaper all right so we have a
background image now that we've used and
what we're eventually going to do is
we're going to have some multiple Pages
here we can add a nice title up on the
top here so if I went to my insert menu
for example I could insert a text box I
go underneath insert I could select
textbox and I could put a title up up
top of my report so I can go up to the
insert menu and insert a text
box and I can kind of shift that text
box around and add some text to it so
maybe we add in something like report I
got my cap lock on I could add in
something like report
summary and I can make that bold and I
can make it really look like a a header
to my report here if I wanted to and so
that way we are able to add a little bit
of nice aesthetic changes to our report
so it's a little nicer here and I'm just
making some aesthetic changes here but I
can grab this now move it up to the top
you could even remove the Border in the
background if you wanted to so it
doesn't have that uh border around it
like we did for our visuals but here I'm
able to now kind of add some of the
final touches here to our report
okay so easy enough to do if you want to
add in something like a a text box you
would simply go up to insert text
box okay
all right very good so the next thing I
want to show is custom visuals so custom
visuals are a fun part of powerbi that
allow you to extend beyond the standard
visuals that are given to you over here
so you have these visuals are provided
to you by default but you can actually
go explore other visuals that are
available to you beyond the default ones
here in fact there's there's more than
450 custom visuals that you can explore
and we're going to show you one just
give you a little bit of a exposure into
custom visuals but custom visuals allow
you again for the purpose uh the purpose
of them is to extend beyond the basic
visuals that are provided to you now
custom visuals are provided and are
available by going to a website called
appsource app source is where all of the
custom visuals can be found but you can
also navigate to find the custom visuals
by clicking on the little three dot menu
found right here okay so if I click on
that little three dot menu the more get
more visuals menu you'll see that when I
go to click on that little three dot
menu right here there is there are a
couple options for how you can bring in
additional visuals and we're going to
choose the option right here called get
more visuals now I will tell you some of
you will be prevented from being able to
do this your company could stop and
prevent you from using custom visuals so
if you do hit a roadblock here I don't
want you to get too hung up on this one
little demo just watch this one if you
if you do do hit a roadblock it I want
it to ruin the rest of your class but do
know that some organizations block
custom visuals for whatever reason
companies have their reasons for doing
that uh but you will be prompted to sign
in to your powerbi account to have
access to the custom visuals and when
you go to sign in powerbi will know
whether or not your organization has
blocked you from Custom visuals so just
a heads up on that all right so we're
going to go ahead and select get more
visuals right
here and when I select get more visuals
it's going top pop open on my screen in
the middle of my screen where I can
search through all of the custom visuals
that are available to me and again
there's more than 450 visuals you can
choose from here there's lots of
different visuals that you can find okay
so what I'd like to do is I want to add
in the play access Visual right here and
if you don't see it on your screen you
could always search in the top right as
well but we're going to add in the play
access Visual found right
here so I'm going to select the play
access
and Matt I see your question happen to
glance over and saw Matt's question Matt
ask can background can the background
image be part of the theme as well
unfortunately not uh if you want to have
a background image that's kind of
consistently part of your solution you
might want to look into something called
powerbi templates it's a little bit
different than themes themes don't
support background images as of today
though all right so here's what we're
going to do I'm going to go ahead and
select that I want to add this play
access Visual right
here and that will allow me to then uh
see this report change over time so
basically here's what the play access
Visual does it allows you to animate
your report so you can build in
animations and you can see how things
change in your report over time so if
you actually want to see year-over-year
how your reports have changed or how
your data sets your data set has changed
year-over-year you can use something
like the play access that allows you to
click a play button and you'll actually
see changes occurring over time so I'm
going to go ahead and select the play or
the add button
here and you'll notice over on the right
hand side that there is now a new visual
that has been added right here the play
access Visual is now available to me and
I can start to use this visual inside of
my report
okay all
right uh Nick has a good relevant
question let me go ahead and promote
Nick's question here for a moment Nick
asked the question once you add a visual
will it always be your visualization
area or will it need to be reloaded uh
do you need to reload the visual for
different reports so great question Nick
the default behavior of how this works
is the custom visual that we added is
only available in this powerbi file that
we're looking at right now by default so
the default behavior is if I were to
save this file close and go open another
file I would not see that custom visual
however you can change that and I see
some good comments in the chat answering
Nick's question as well but if I wanted
to change that so that that visual is
permanently available to me you can
right click on the visual and you can
select pin to visualizations pan and so
this is answering Nick's question that
you're seeing on my screen right now
this would allow you to be able to make
that visual permanent with inside of
your powerbi desktop so it's specific to
you uh if you had other users they went
to open up their powerbi desktop it's
not pinned for them but this does allow
you to make it so that that visual is
there for you always and then and a
followup to that is Marty's question so
Marty asked uh how do you then let me
put Marty's question up here how do you
then uh remove a visual so if I go to
pin a visual how do I later remove it
well if I go to pin a visual which I
just did if I pin that visual I can
later remove it by right clicking on it
and selecting unpin this Visual and
you'll see it kind of goes back and
forth below and above this little dotted
line here that's how you add or remove a
custom visual right click to pin it
right click to unpin it if you don't
want it to be permanently there okay
good
questions all right let me go ahead and
unpin that question Perfect all right so
good deal so now that we have added in
the play access let's actually see it in
action if I want to add the play access
Visual to my report I can do that by
going to select it over with inside of
the visualizations pane right here so
I'm going to select the play AIS visual
that we just added a few moments ago
again make sure you have no other visual
selected when you do this if I have
another visual selected when I add in
the play access it's going to replace
the visual that I'm trying to use rather
than edit the visual uh so I what I want
to do is I want a totally new visual I'm
going to make sure that I click
somewhere in the background somewhere in
the white space so no visuals are added
and then I'll go ahead and click the
play access
Visual with the play access Visual
selected I'm going to bring this over
and shift it in into place and you can
really shape it or size it however you
want that's up to you but now with
inside of this new play access Visual
I'm going to bring into it my year
column from the calendar table so what
we're going to do is from the calendar
table right here we're going to bring in
the year column and drag and drop that
into the field list for the play
access and this will allow me to
actually see how things Chang year by
year with the number of failed banks
that we have okay all right so if I go
ahead and select year now notice what
happened so now I can see there's this
nice little visual in the bottom right
hand corner for me I can hit play on
that and now you might sometimes by the
way you have to hit it twice so I'm
gonna hit it a second time here now when
I hit a second time it'll actually show
me how things have changed over time
with inside of my report so in the early
2000s there wasn't a whole lot of
different uh banks that were failing but
then you can see kind of 2009 2010 20 11
range that's when there was a lot of
fail banks that were occurring and you
see a big influx in the number of failed
banks that appear in that range and so
if you pay close attention let me go
ahead and play that again you'll see the
big influx occur around that 2009 2010
Range is where the most banks really
started to appear with ins side of our
visuals there we go right there you can
see 2009 you can see it highlight is
show the highlighted value is showing us
there's 25 failed banks of the total 93
occurred in the year 2009 so a really
really neat visual it allows you to
build in animations into your report it
allows you to build more interactive
report visuals by using things like this
play access Visual and the play access
Visual is just one of hundreds uh like I
mentioned there's more than 450 custom
visuals that are available to you this
is just one there's lots of other ones
that are worth exploring as well
okay all right so we got 15 more minutes
so I have a couple things I want to show
you I'm going to tell you this this next
thing I'm going to show show you I'm
going to do to fast for you to follow
along with at least to follow along with
me live so I'm telling you that because
this is a recording you can go back and
you can slow me down but I really want
you to see this next feature it's really
cool I think you'll it it has a wow
factor to it that I want you to see uh
but I'm noticing we're getting low on
time here so I'm telling you that just
to let you know that you can rewatch
this this is recorded you can go back
and Rewind me and watch this next
section again because I'm going to have
to do it a little fast uh for the time
we have left
so the next thing that I'm going to show
you that that's going to be fast is
called report page tool tips report page
tool tips are a feature that replaces
the standard tool tip you see right here
okay report page tool tips can replace
this little feature that you're seeing
this is what's known as a tool tip right
here okay a tool tip is basically a
hover over whenever you got to hover
over data a data point it will show you
the value that's represented by that
data point and what a report page tool
tip does is it allows you to replace
that gray box that we saw pop up right
here with a box of your own design you
can replace it entirely with something
totally different and the way that you
do it is you you create your own your
own page now we haven't really talked
about this yet but down on the bottom
here you can actually have multiple
pages of reports that you can add right
now we're looking at page one but you
can actually have more than one page to
your report by hitting the little plus
sign here it looks very much like adding
another Excel spreadsheet right right so
what we're going to do is we're going to
actually add in another page you'll see
we have a new blank canvas here now when
we do that we can always toggle back to
page one so here's page one here's page
two by the way you can also rename these
Pages if you wanted to you can rename
them by double clicking on the page name
here and you can give them a new
name like so I can call this my tool tip
page and you can have multiple names to
your multiple pages and they can have
different names for each one of them
here okay all right so what we're going
to do is now that we have created a
second page we're going to make this new
page turn into a tool tip okay and the
way that we do that is we're going to go
over to the format section and
underneath Page information again I'm
going to be doing this a little fast so
you can always rewind me and watch this
again later but underneath the format
section we're going to turn on allow use
as tool tip and so I'm going to go ahead
and turn that on notice it resizes the
canvas to something far smaller that's
more of an appropriate tool tip size
there and then what I'm going to do is
I'm going to add some visuals to it so
I'm going to add something like a card
visual this would be the card visual
right here I'm G to add a card visual to
this report and I'm going to put in a
measure for total Banks so show me the
total number of banks with inside of
this little popup we're trying to create
I'm also going to add in a map and
inside the
map okay inside the map that I'm going
to do I'm going to bring in the total
number of banks by city
state okay so the location is going to
be city state here's what we did we
brought in city state into the location
and Bank name into the bubble size
here now one thing that's worth
noting Maps do have some security
features that could be turned off for
you so if you see an error on top of
your map it could be one of two things
there is a setting underneath the file
and options menu with inside of powerbi
where you can turn off a security
setting that will allow maps to work uh
Manuel may be able to go kind of give
you a little bit of path of how to get
to that that would take me a few moments
to show but there is an option to turn
off the security setting to allow maps
to work uh that's something you can turn
off in the powerbi desktop if this isn't
working for you for some reason the
other thing that you may consider doing
is it could be something that your
organization has turned off at the
tenant level so it may be something that
your administrator needs to help you
with as well so there's two things to
check if the map doesn't work for you
one is it could be a setting in your
powerbi desktop the other is it could be
something that your tenant admin has
turned off for your whole company but
what I'm going to do is with my map
added mine is working I'm going to add
into my map the city state column which
you actually I already did add it in but
you'll notice that none of my city
states are actually mapping it's not
actually showing any anything on my map
at the moment so what I'm need to do
there's a there's a special feature that
I need to turn on it's called Data
categories and by flipping on a data
category for the citystate column it's
going to let powerbi know that we're
talking about a particular location
right now when we pass in our citystate
column it doesn't recognize it as a
geographic field and so we're going to
need to tell powerbi that citystate is
actually a geographic field that we want
to be able to show on our map
so the way that we're going to do that
is we're going to first start by
selecting the citystate column just
click on the column name not the check
box and with the column selected we're
then going to go up to column tools like
we did earlier so column tools right
here and you'll see there's a property
here called Data category that's set to
uncategorize but we're going to change
this to place the reason we're not
selecting city is because remember our
city state column actually has the city
and state in it and so City wouldn't be
recognized properly here so we're going
to use the place value and by selecting
the place value Watch What Happens in
our map look at that now all of the data
points are finally now being mapped
inside of our report visual because we
have told powerbi that citystate is
actually a geographic field
okay all right good deal so now that
we've done that there's one final step
to make this work and the one final step
that we need to do is there is a
property on the report page right here
called tool tip and we need to bring a
field into the tool tip section that
lets powerbi know how to filter this
tool tip down now the column that we're
going to be using for our example is
going to be the state column because
what we want to do is we want to make it
so that anytime someone goes to build a
report visual if it's using the state
colum we want this tool tip to pop up so
we're going to drag and drop the state
column into the tool tip section by
simply dragging that into the tool tip
area and again what that means is any
visual that uses the state column will
have access to this tool tip and it will
filter to only show the state that you
happen to be hovering over so this is a
little bit more of an advanced feature
for sure but I think it's a wow factor
thing I really want you to see so let's
go ahead and drag in the state column
into the tool tip area and we're done so
I know I did that pretty fast but let's
see the end result of what we just did
yeah it does does kind of act like a a
drill through uh see for that question
that came in the chat it's kind of like
a drill through at least how you set it
up but it's done a little differently
the the behavior is a little different
so let's go back over to our report
summary now our original report and
watch what happens now when we go to
hover above State now when I go to hover
above State you'll see it pops up not
that gray box we saw earlier now we're
actually seeing a number our tool tip we
created with inside of it and a map so
we actually do see a map showing us each
of the state where those failed Banks
were occurring now with inside of our
tool tip we' created so this is called
report page tool tips it's a really neat
feature and it delivers a little bit of
a wow factor where you can see that you
can go beyond the basic gray box that we
saw here so this was what we saw before
right we saw this gray box now we're
seeing this much more responsive uh
report page tool tip that gives you a
much neater view now it's a little bit
more of an advanced feature but again
don't forget this is recorded go back
and watch this video again this portion
of the video again to see all the little
clicks that I did to make that happen
Okay I want you to see that one I'm
seeing a lot of great responses in the
chat because it is really a neat feature
so I wanted to make sure you could at
least see the the punchline even if I
had to do it a little fast uh because it
is such a really really really cool
feature all right very good so we're
down to our last few minutes here and
what we're going to be doing in our last
couple minutes is I want to show you
what do you do with this next what's the
next steps that we would do
uh one of the things I wanted to show
you with a little bit more time and
maybe I'll give you a little peek at it
is you can also build in navigation into
your reports so if you wanted to build
in let's say for example buttons you
you'll notice I left a lot of space here
on the Le hand side because I wanted to
build in the capability to have buttons
that your users could click on to go
from report to report very briefly let
me show you how that could be done if I
wanted to build in navigation into my
reports for my users then I can go up to
the insert menu
and I'll zoom in on this here for you in
a moment but under the insert menu right
here this is definitely worth exploring
later on your own underneath the button
section here you'll see there's an
option here called Navigator and there
you can build in buttons for your users
to click so it will allow them to hop
from page to page so if I were to
actually do this on my screen I don't
really have very much for them to hop
back and forth between in fact you'll
see it really only creates one button
for me
but I could take that button and I can
move it over here on the right hand side
now it will automatically create a
button for you for every page that you
have now the reason you're only seeing
one button is because powerbi is smart
enough to realize you probably don't
want to have a button for the tool tip
you don't want users to go to that tool
tip page but if I were to add another
page here check this out I added another
page now I have another button so it'll
create as many buttons as you have Pages
unless they're tool tips it actually
hides the tool tip Pages for you
automatically and if you wanted to
change the orientation of this you can
so I can actually change this so that it
is uh rotated let's see it
is style here it is there's a button
there's a way that you can actually
change this here here we go vertical so
now I can kind of have buttons on the
left hand side going down the left hand
side where I'm building this navigation
and it allows you to kind of toggle back
and forth between all of the pages you
have on your report so by adding in that
was again under the insert menu an
insert button Navigator you can select
the page Navigator and it will
automatically create a button for you
for every page you have on your report
allowing your users to very easily
navigate between each of the pages you
have so that's a great strategy for you
know building in that almost like a
website looking feel right so Daniel
asked a good question Daniel ask how is
this different than bookmarks so this
actually doesn't rely on bookmarks at
all
the what I'm showing now with the the
button option it's almost doing what you
would have in the past manually created
with bookmarks so bookmarks can do the
same thing this just makes it a lot
easier so you don't have to build Book
bookmarks on your own uh it actually
just allows you to kind of take care of
um uh it allows you to build in the
navigation without without you having to
manually create the bookmarks so they
they saw uh the powerbi team saw so many
people were doing the same thing with
building out navigation that they went
ahead and built that into the product
itself all right very good good question
all right the final thing the last few
minutes we have here that I want to show
the final step here that I want to get
across to you is what do you do with
this next and we're definitely down to
the wire here on time we got about five
minutes left uh but the final thing I
want to show you is what do I do with
the solution once I'm done and what
you're going to do is you're going to
publish and share your work with others
and this will definitely be a micro
session here but under your Home tab so
you're going to go to home first
and under the Home tab with inside the
powerbi desktop you'll find a publish
button right here by selecting publish
this will allow you to share your work
with others by publishing to the powerbi
service so if I select and click on the
publish button it's going to prompt me
first to save my work I have yet to save
my work so it's going to ask me to save
my work locally so I'll save that and
I'll call this my learn with the
Nerds live session here and hit save
and so I've saved my work locally and
now I can publish to the powerbi service
this is the cloud part of powerbi here
okay now each of you are likely going to
have different workspaces you can
publish to so a workspace is basically
like a folder that you publish your
powerbi content to but what everyone
should have assuming you have a powerbi
account is everyone will have a my
workspace and your my workspaces where
you can kind of do like your own
personal testing and you can you know
validate that the things are going to
look the way they should in the web
browser that they do elsewhere but your
my workspace is kind of like for your
own personal testing when you want to
really publish to somewhere that you
will share with others you'll likely
have another workspace you create so I
think I have one here called learn with
the Nerds I'm going to go ahead and
select learn with the Nerds is my
workspace and it's going to publish now
to the powerbi service which is going to
be found from with inside of the web
browser experience so with a little bit
of time we have left I'm going to click
on open learn with the Nerds live inside
of the power the powerbi service which
is going to open in my web browser
experience and you'll see here this is
the same experience that we had in the
desktop tool now appearing with inside
of the web browser experience okay so
this allows you to now see the same
report that we did in the desktop tool
now available inside of the powerbi
service and you're able to interact with
it just like you could from with inside
of the desktop tool but now you're
inside of the web experience now there's
loads more to talk about here as far as
how do you share your work with others
how do you schedule data refreshes
there's lots more here to learn about
that for unfortunately we're just out of
time uh to go any deeper into but
there's lots of sharing options that you
can do in fact you'll even see that you
can share from the report directly right
here uh there's other ways of sharing
where you can share to a workspace or
you can share to a powerbi app uh what I
would recommend you may want to take a
peek at is menwell who's joined us today
he actually did a webinar on powerbi
Administration that was another
three-hour one where he went pretty in
depth into a lot of the topics that we
have on my screen right now and I will
put uh if if he doesn't have that
handy I'll put it in the chat for you uh
as well so that way if you want to learn
more about the administration side of
things with powerbi I'm going to put a
link to his lengthier webinar uh
three-hour webinar
on Administration I'm going to put that
in the chat for you so that way you can
go back and learn more about powerbi
Administration
all right very good so the final thing I
want to mention for you again this is
where you would go next you would share
your work here there's lots more to
learn of what to do next watch that
three-hour link I put in the chat just
now around powerbi Administration the
way I want to wrap up with you though is
I do want to let you know that uh first
of all we do have another event coming
up I'm sure my my marketing team folks
will add this into the chat we have a
another lunch with the Nerds which is
our shorter sessions is coming up on let
me go pull it up on my screen here we
have another lunch with the Nerds that's
coming up
on March 8th so if you look at our
YouTube channel on March 8th with
Allison Gonzalez we have a lunch with
the Nerds which means it's a shorter
session it's an hour and a half and it's
going to be coming up on March 8th at 11
a.m. okay that's going to be on data
storytelling with powerbi so she's going
to focus even more on some of the
storytelling features that I wish we had
more time to cover today today she's
going to really dig into that on that
hour and a half session she's also going
to talk about some methodologies around
data storytelling she is actually has a
design background so she really has a
lot of expertise around designing your
reports so uh my team has it looks like
has already shared in the chat a link to
where you can sign up for that so make
sure that you take a moment and sign up
for the lunch with the nerd session
coming up on March 8th uh we'll also be
sending out some follow-up information
if you have questions again about the
boot camps uh I'll put the the
information about the boot camp sale
that we have going on up on the screen
here again but other than that thank you
so much everyone for joining hopefully
you enjoyed today's session don't forget
it was recorded you can go back and
rewatch certain portions of it if
there's something that you missed
something that you want to go back and
see again take a moment and go ahead and
Rewind me and watch it again thanks
everybody have a great rest of your week
and thanks for joining today take care
