data visualization encompasses all
aspects of the visual representation of
data in today's world we are dealing
with huge sets of data where there is a
need of visualization for sure in such a
scenario tools become prominent to eight
people in understanding the significance
of data through visual aids like
patterns Trends dashboards and charts hi
all I welcome you to this session and
today we are going to list the top 10
most popular data visualization tools
but before we begin let's look at our
agenda for today so first of all we're
going to talk about data visualization
as a concept as in what it means to
visualize data what are the different
parts of data visualization the
components which form data visualization
and why do we need it next we're going
to talk a little bit about data
visualization tools the purpose that
they serve and what is it that all the
best data visualization tools have in
common it will also give you a fair idea
of how we've come up with our list we're
going to talk about the different areas
in which we are charging these tools
then finally we are going to enlist the
top 10 visualization tools according to
us for the year 2020. here we are going
to be talking about the pros and cons of
said tool along with the open source
availability and pricing of the tool so
with that we come to the end of our
agenda so without much to do let's get
started so what is data visualization in
definitive terms data visualization
combines scientific visualization
information visualization and visual
analytics to Encompass designing and
Analysis of the visual representation of
data it is basically a technique or a
set of techniques of communicating
information through a graphical or a
visual medium Now understand that
consuming large sets of data isn't
always a straightforward method
sometimes these data sets are so large
and so unstructured that its downright
impossible to discern anything useful
from them and this is where data
visualization techniques come in
you have thousands of different entries
all of different formats and you have to
create one visualization from scratch
show it's possible but definitely not
simple so generalized data visualization
involves different disciplines such as
Information Technology Natural Sciences
statistical analysis Graphics
interaction and geographic information
but three in particular that I want to
talk about is scientific visualization
information visualization and visual
analytics which are the three main
disciplines which contribute to data
visualization
so scientific visualization is basically
an interdisciplinary research and
application field in science it focuses
on visualization of three-dimensional
phenomena such as architecture
meteorology medicine or biological
systems its purpose is to graphically
illustrate scientific data which in turn
enables scientists to understand explain
and collect patterns from data then we
have information visualization which is
the study of interactive visual
representations of abstract data to
enhance human cognition abstract data
includes both digital and non-digital
data such as geographic information and
text
Graphics such as histograms Trend graphs
flowcharts and tree diagrams all belong
to information visualization and the
design of these Graphics transforms
abstract Concepts into visual
information and finally you have visual
analytics this is a new field that has
evolved with the development of
scientific visualization and information
visualization this has an emphasis on
analytical reasoning through interactive
visual interface basically this is what
aids your drill down processes in any
data visualization platform now I want
to discuss for a little bit why do we
need data visualization now the amount
of information that humans gain through
vision is far beyond that of other
sensory organs data visualization is the
use of your human natural skills to
enhance data processing and organization
efficiency so visualization can
basically help us deal with more complex
information and enhance its place in our
memory now most people do not know much
about statistical data and basic
statistical methods are not in line with
human cognitive nature one of the more
famous examples is the and scombius
quartet it is difficult to see the law
according to the statistical methods but
the rules are immediately cleared when
this data is visualized and technically
the simplest understanding of data
visualization is actually mapping
straight from data space to your graphic
space a classic visual implementation
procedure is to process and filter the
data transform it into an expressible
visual form and then render it to a user
visible View and that's where data
visualization tools come in
data visualization tools provide you
with an easier way to create visual
representations of enormous data sets
when dealing with data sets that include
hundreds of thousands of millions of
data points automating the process of
creating a visualization at least in
part makes your job significantly easier
these data visualizations can then be
used for a variety of purposes such as
dashboards annual reports sales and
marketing materials investor slide decks
and virtually anywhere else information
needs to be interpreted immediately
now what do the best data visualization
tools have in common now the best data
visualization tools on the market have a
couple things in common first is their
ease of use there's some incredibly
complicated apps available for
visualizing data some have excellent
documentations and tutorials and a
design in ways that feel intuitive to
the user others are lacking in those
areas eliminating them from the list of
best tools regardless of their other
capabilities the best tools can also
handle huge sets of data in fact the
very best can even handle multiple sets
of data in a single visualization these
tools can also output an array of
different charts graphs and map types
most of the tools that I have enlisted
here can output both images and
interactive graphs there are exceptions
to the variety of output criteria though
some data visualization tools focus on a
specific type of chart or map and do it
exceedingly well those tools also have a
place among the vegetables out here
finally there are cost considerations of
costs while a higher price tag doesn't
necessarily disqualify a tool the higher
price tag has to be justified in terms
of better support better features and
overall value now there are dozens if
not hundreds of applications tools and
scripts available to create
visualizations of large data sets many
are very basic and have a lot of
overlapping features as well but there
are standouts that either have more
capability for the types of
visualizations they can create or
significantly easier to use than other
tools that are listed here now when I
say tools I mean applications and
software platforms and I'm not going to
be including libraries
we're going to keep that for another
session
so let's go ahead with our list
at number 10 we have infogram now this
is a web-based data visualization and
infographics Tool which permits users to
create and share digital charts
infographics and Maps it has an
intuitive editor known as what you see
is what you get which transforms your
data into shareable infographics
now couple of Pros that stand out are
that you need absolutely no coding
skills to use this tool it is available
in a free version it allows you to
connect your visualizations to live and
public data sources as well as gives you
a choice of over 35 types of charts and
200 different types of maps that's
impressive isn't it apart from that it
is also a great platform if you want to
handle complex data however there are a
couple of pitfalls here mostly
pertaining to the free version of this
tool
firstly the free version mandates you to
include the Instagram logo in your
designs as well as lacks the rich text
editing feature also I feel that it
lacks in a few data integration features
when compared to others on this list now
the basic version of this tool comes
free of cost and pro versions cost
around 19 a month the business version
will cost you 67 and the team version is
priced at 149 for the Enterprise version
you can customize it by contacting the
vendor also both free and licensed
versions are available in the store
at number nine we have citizens now this
provides instant insights for anyone and
anywhere in your organization it allows
you to create visual dashboards and
reports to State any piece of data
uncover unlying Trends and patterns to
make data-driven decisions now certain
pros of having is that it has an
extremely user-friendly interface while
also providing great analysis
performance on larger data sets along
with that it has excellent support easy
upgrades and integrates extremely well
with different data sources this product
is very flexible and allows for easy
customization its cons include
difficulty to maintain and develop
analytic cubes and also if a cube is
rebuilt it is required to become
inaccessible during that period it also
does not have any inbuilt data type to
support the time format and has limited
type of visualization now pricing is not
disclosed by assistance however it
offers a no surprise pricing package
where the cost is determined on a
case-by-case basis depending upon the
data size and number of users it also
has a free trial available at number
eight we have find report so this is an
Enterprise level web programming tool
written in pure Java it combines data
visualization as well as data entry and
is designed based on a no code
development concept
with find report users can make complex
reports and cool dashboards and build a
decision-making platform with simple
drag and drop operations it also is one
of the connoisseurs of this sort of easy
UI now find report can be directly
connected to all sorts of databases and
it is convenient and quick to customize
various complex reports and dashboards
the interface is similar to that of
Excel and IT provides 19 categories and
over 50 styles of self-developed HTML5
charts it also gives you these really
fun 3D and dynamic effects to go with it
and the most important thing is that its
personal version is completely free
however it is only a sample and does not
allow intuitive views and will also
leave you wanting to learn more about
using Advanced tools such as
incorporating JS and Java which in case
if you do not know much about Java will
be difficult for you to use use at
number seven we have Google charts now
this is a very powerful easy to use and
interactive data visualization tool for
browsers and mobile devices it has a
rich gallery of charts and allows you to
get it customized as per your needs
now the rendering of these charts are
based on the HTML5 SVG technology and it
provides you with Pros such as its
Simplicity to learn user friendliness
it's speed and accuracy great
interactivity three years of backwards
compatibility as well as cross browser
compatibility and cross-platform
portability with any additional plugins
and all of this completely free apart
from that it supports iPhone iPad and
Android and can read from multiple data
sources including Excel SQL databases
CSV Google spreadsheets so on and so
forth this tool is completely free but
comes with his own set of pitfalls which
include a mandatory network connection
while using the tool the absence of
demos on Advanced features along with a
lack of sophisticated statistical
processing working with API for complex
presentations is also sometimes
difficult to learn
next we have grafana now this is an open
source visualization software that lets
users create Dynamic dashboards and
other forms of reports it supports mixed
data sources annotations and
customizable alert functions it can also
be extended via hundreds of available
plugins and that makes it one of the
most powerful visualization tools out
there you have export functions which
allow designers to share snapshots of
dashboards as well as invite other users
to collaborate grafana supports over 50
data sources via plugins it's a
completely free to download and there's
a cloud hosted version for fort nine
dollars a month there's also a very
limited free hosted version
now if you have a downloadable version
there are support plans available
something a lot of other open source
tools don't offer but then again it
definitely is an overkill for creating
simple visualization does not offer as
many visual customization options as
some of its competitors and is not the
best option for creating visualization
images and the final con would be its
inability to embed dashboards in
websites though it is possible for
individual panels
and hence it is not higher on our list
having said that grafana is one of the
best options for creating dashboards for
internal use especially if you're using
mixed or larger uncategorized data
sources
at number 5 we have Dundas now this is a
very old and popular data visualization
tool and thus definitely stood the test
of time and for good reason it offers
super interactive visualizations which
Aid the users to understand data faster
and better its other visualization
features include Rich scorecards smart
tables numerous chart types gauges Maps
data labels sparkline indicators
diagrams and relationships this tool is
grounded on responsive HTML5 webtech
which allows the users to connect
interact and analyze their data on any
device from anywhere apart from that it
has great ETL capabilities while
allowing us to write direct SQL against
data sources that we choose it has
amazing flexibility in design and comes
with really good support and let's not
forget it's amazing library of
visualizations the cons of Dundas are
few which is why it is so high up on our
list it does not offer predictive
analysis which most newer data
visualization tools do and it also lacks
support on 3D charts apart from that it
follows a one-time license and
subscription-based pricing model but has
a free trial available however Dundas bi
pricing and details are based on a
flexible licensing model that adapts to
your needs and that of your business
which is why it is not disclosed by the
vendor at number 4 we have adaptive
insights
specifically being designed for business
users the Adaptive Discovery tool
adaptive insights allows focusing on
your analysis and decision making on
what is important to you with
interactive drill down and visual
storytelling you can identify the root
causes answer questions on the Fly and
spot Trends to address the issues ahead
of the curve it gives you a complete
perspective that you shall need to drive
for financial sales and operational
performances it also allows you to model
plan and forecast to make Better
Business decisions some of the things we
like about adaptive Discovery is the
ability to connect to any data source be
it Erp CRM or HCM it has personalized
dashboards modular metrics as well as
shared metrics and the information is at
your fingertips from anywhere with
analytics delivered completely on the
cloud while this tool equips you with
out of the box planning budgeting and
focus costing processes sometimes the
responsiveness is extremely slow due to
the use of java initially it is a bit
difficult to learn this tool mainly
because of setting up your reports but
once you get the hang of it you should
be fine
apart from that it's actually pretty
difficult to modify reports without
creating a new one on this tool and the
overall reporting functionality in our
opinion could be improved like many
others on this list you need to contact
the company for pricing details it has a
subscription based pricing model and the
price will be determined by the number
of instances that you want to opt for
the tool is available in two editions
which is the Adaptive Discovery
professional and the Enterprise version
now though it is a licensed tool it does
have a free trial version available with
that we've come to our top three tools
at number three we have Microsoft power
bi now this is one of the more commonly
used bi tools which allows you to
connect to a wide variety of data
sources design customize dashboards and
detailed reports and supports both
mobile and web-based analytics it has
Pros such as being cloud-based giving a
single view of the dashboard its
affordability and since it's a Microsoft
tool it has a very strong brand
integration with other Ms tools a lot of
documentation about this tool is also
freely available online along with a big
and active Community Helping you resolve
your doubts a wide variety of charting
options for data visualizations are
available with consistent upgrades and
an extensive database connectivity which
hopefully will cover up for how
difficult it is to learn and its
inability to handle bulk data you shall
sometimes face a certain lag when you
are using huge volumes of data sets also
the cloud version does not have all the
features available in the windows
version but the good news is that it is
available in both free and pro versions
and has two Enterprise pricing plans the
first one is totally free with 1GB data
storage limit and the second plan which
is the Pro Plan costs less than 10
dollars per user per month which also
has its own data storage limit of 10 GB
at number 2 we have water graph now this
tool is different from the others and
provides marketing agencies with an easy
way of reporting marketing campaign data
to their clients this platform creates
visual data that is easy to comprehend
no matter who your reporting results to
certain features include its seamless
integration with over 40 of the top
digital marketing platforms such as
Google analytics Facebook ads and
MailChimp it has endless customization
options and you can have your pick from
virtually hundreds of different pre-made
reporting widgets or create your own
methods of presenting data now on the
stool cross-platform data analysis is
extremely simple and it gives you a
great way to compare different marketing
platforms and their performance in one
report automated report creation and
delivery is also brilliant when you use
the service and when managing a variety
of clients automation features can help
process and deliver data to the right
clients with minimal input on your
behalf along with this it comes with
something known as white label reports
which helps you customize the report the
way you see fit add your own images or
logo and let your branding shine through
with each report you create
water graph is a feature-rich marketing
data reporting platform for agencies to
use it makes easy work of managing
multiple clients while aiding you with a
plethora of Integrations and automation
functionality not just that the water
graph pricing differs based on the
features you want to use there is no
need to overpay for the features that
you are never going to use
the only con that we see here is the
lack of Versatility
it is more of something that marketing
agencies would use for marketing
campaigns and less of everything else
which is why it's not on the top of our
list but then what is
finally at number one we have Tableau
now Tableau is a business intelligence
service that aids people in visualizing
as well as understanding their data it's
also one of those very widely used
services in the field of business
intelligence which allows you to design
interactive reports dashboards and
worksheets to obtain business Visions it
has outstanding visualization
capabilities and has a great performance
despite the size of data sets it is easy
to use and comes with a healthy
community and forum and offers great
connectivity to multiple data sources it
is mobile friendly it has powerful
computation and quick insights but it
comes at a price of 70 dollars per user
per month billed annually you have no
option for scheduling and auto
refreshing of reports and it has
restrictive visual Imports static
parameters need to be updated manually
each time when the data gets modified
and a lot of users find column table
formatting extremely difficult to do
however it comes in a public version
which is an open source version where is
absolutely free and has almost all the
features of the paid version and the
licensed version also has a free trial
available for two weeks having said that
this software allows data mixing and
real-time collaboration it doesn't Force
users to write custom code and all in
all is one of the simplest business
intelligence tools in the desktop system
which is why it tops our list of the top
10 data visualization tools of 2020 data
visualization is a huge field with many
disciplines it's precisely because of
this interdisciplinary nature that the
visualization field is full of Vitality
and opportunities with that I come to
the end of my session my name is upasana
thank you and have a great day
