[Music]
hello and welcome all to this YouTube
session there's a doll from a Eureka and
in today's session we'll be dealing with
sentiment analysis using Python like you
all know the success of a company or
product directly depends on its customer
right so the customer likes your product
it's your success if not then you
certainly need to improvise it by making
some changes in it so how will you know
whether your product is successful or
not well for that you need to analyze
your customers and one of the attributes
of analyzing your customer is to analyze
the sentiment of them and this is where
the sentiment analysis comes into
picture so starting with word is
sentiment analysis well you can define
sentiment analysis as a process of
computationally identifying and
categorizing opinions from a piece of
text and determine whether the writers
attitude towards a particular topic or
the product is positive negative or
neutral well it might be possible not as
an individual every time you don't
perform a sentiment analysis but you do
look for a feedback right like before
purchasing a product you can look for a
feedback like what the other customers
have to say about that particular
product whether it isn't good or bad
right and you analyze it manually by
looking at their feedbacks now just
consider at the company level so how
will the company analyze what the
customers is thinking about their
product they don't have just one or two
customers right they have more than
millions of customers so what they will
do so this is where the company needs to
perform sentiment analysis to know
whether the product is actually doing
good in the market or not ok fine so now
that you know what exactly sentiment
analysis let's move on and see how does
it actually work so let's take the
statement as an example the movie was
great so the very first step would be
the step of tokenization so what exactly
is tokenization tokenization is nothing
but dividing your Pera into a different
set of statements or dividing a
statement into different set of words so
the statement the movie was great would
be further segregated into its different
words so once the process of
organization is done so the second step
would be cleaning the data so by
cleaning the data I mean to remove all
these special characters or any other
word which do not add any value to the
analytics part
so as in step two I'd be removing the
special characters so I don't need this
exclamation mark over here so I'm left
with four words though movie was and
great
so next step would be removing the stop
words like I said I do not need any word
which do not add any value to the
analytics result so the stop words like
the was is he/she do not add much value
to the analytics part so we can easily
remove them so now we are just left with
two words movie and great okay now step
four is the classification step so now
that you are left with just two words
what your task will be your task will be
to classify them as whether it is a
positive word or a negative word or a
neutral word for a positive word we give
a sentiment score as plus one for a
negative we have a minus one score and
for a neutral wig of zero now this is
the part where machine learning comes
you can model your data with bag of
words or you can use lexicons which are
nothing but a dictionary of pre
classified set of words and now once the
model strain you can perform the test on
the analysis statement and mode the
accuracy score better will be the
classification right if your model is
too accurate then yes it will be a very
good classification so well now what we
have done we have classified our words
as positive and negative the sentiment
score of movie is zero as it's a neutral
word and great is a plus one according
to dictionary it's a positive word even
you know that it's a positive word right
so let's move on ahead and calculate the
final sentiment score of the sentence
now since we have just two words over
here which adds some values to the
analytics part so on combining the
statement you can say that we have one
plus zero that equals one so now you can
say that since the polarity is greater
than zero so the statement is positive
well for a beginner level you can say
that this was a step by step calculation
for sentiment analysis don't worry when
you are using Python it's more simple
than you can think let me show you how
simple is set to perform sentiment
analysis in Python so for the quick
start we'll be using text blob which is
a Python library for processing textual
data it will allow you to perform common
NLP tasks such as parts of speech
tagging down for his extraction
sentiment analysis classification and
many other things
so let's start by importing text blob
and calculate the polarity of each
statement and determine whether the
statement is positive negative or
neutral all right
well by the time it's executing let's
define our parameters or define our
feedback and let's suppose our first
feedback was feedback 1 equals the food
at Radisson was awesome ok and my next
feedback is
and the food and radisson was very good
all right well as you can see a boat
seemed to be almost a positive statement
right but let's check how positive
they're all a sentiment analysis is all
about checking how positive or how
negative a statement is okay so let's
define our blob so my blob one will be
blob of first feedback all right and my
blob - will be text blob of feedback to
call it so now all you need to do is
print your sentiment Ripple
alright so a sentiment report will
consist of the measure of polarity as
well as subjectivity well you can just
keep it to polarity or subjectivity as
well but for this video I'll be focusing
on both the polarity measure as well as
the subjectivity Messier
so let's print a sentiment report blob
dot sentiments so blob one dot sentiment
and print
on print block 2 dot sentiment let's see
what's the result
alik saw sentiment report is ready for a
statement one the polarities 1.0 it's
highly positive statement whereas the
subjectivity it's also one point zero
and four statement two you can see that
the polarity is 0.9 and at
subjectivities 0.7 this polarity measure
will tell you how positive your
statement is or how negative your
statement is and this subjectivity it
expresses about personal feelings views
or beliefs so let's take an example like
a subjective sentence so subjective
expression comes in many forms example
opinion allegation desires believes
suspicions and speculation a subjective
sentence may not express any sentiment
all right for example I think that he
went home and I want a camera that can
take good photos these are all just
subjective sentence they do not express
any sentiment right so well this was
very basic example so in my next video
I'll show you how you can fetch data
from Twitter and apply sentiment
analysis on your tweet using text blob
and creepy thank you all this was all
for this session and don't forget to
watch my next video on Twitter sentiment
analysis in Python using creepy and
explore thank you I hope you have
enjoyed listening to this video please
be kind enough to like it and you can
comment any of your doubts and queries
and we will reply them at the earliest
do look out for more videos in our
playlist and subscribe to Eddie Rica
channel to learn more happy learning
