hello and welcome today in this video we
are going to talk about G checkout
command now you will say I know about
the GE check out Command right it is
used to switch between the branches
let's say that if I have Branch one and
I want to go to the master Branch I will
use this command get checkout Master yes
you can use
this but get check out also having
another Ed case let's say that if you
you have multiple commit and if you want
to go to or switch between the commit
you can also use gear check out command
how I'm going to explain you this
practically now to understand this whole
process I have to have multiple commits
we are not going to create any branches
or anything yes we are going to create
multiple commits so we can easily switch
between this using G checkout command so
right now I have one directory d name is
my code it is not g repo right now so if
I'm going to give command G status it is
not I'm going to give command g in it so
now this is my G repo here I'm going to
create one file using Eco command Eco
okay
first change in the file okay I'm just
going to write like this first change
into the file and the file name is file
one
okay going to add this
G add file
one going to commit this so
G commit d m
version
one added so I have FAL commit now going
to repeat this process okay so going to
use Arrow key so so I can resolve the
error see
eal going to use double greater than
sign because it is going to add new line
okay here I'm going to give command
second commit in the file okay going to
add file get add and now going to commit
this okay and I'm saying that it is a
version
two then again going to use Aero
key here I'm going to
say third
Third change in the file okay going to
add this file need add file and here I
going
to give the command version three again
same
process four change in the file
one
now need com MIT version
4 okay I forget to add this file file
one and let's add this so now done g l
and you will see this I have version one
version two version three version 4 and
my head is in the version four right now
okay now I want to verify what I have in
the version two okay so I want to verify
this for a temporary period of time and
I want to move my head to this okay this
is what my current requirement is so how
I can do this see simply I'm going to
copy the has you do not need to copy the
entire has you can use only first five
characters so this is the first five I'm
going to copy this okay and here I'm
giving command let me clear
this okay here I'm giving command G
check
out okay and we copied this
it has of this so I'm going to paste
this okay let's press enter now what is
happening okay see this is the most
important part that you need to
understand okay see you are in detached
head state so what is happening when you
will give the command I use this command
G check out and has first P character of
has of commit to because I want to
verify the status okay
it has created the det head state it is
not the branch or nothing it is a
temporary state from where I can find
out what I have during
this G to commit okay if you want to
convert this into the branch you can do
this but if you exit from this it will
be removed okay so let's verify this
first of all I'm giving command
G log
okay look at this I have version one and
version two my commit is on the version
two right now if I'm going to verify the
file okay if I'm giving command cat file
one see first change and the second
change I'm on exactly the same state if
I'm going to give command G Branch okay
here I will get this like we have Master
branch and right now I am in the head
detach add this is head detach state it
is not br or anything keep this in mind
now suppose if I'm going to give command
gate switch which is used to switch the
BR okay if I'm going to give command G
switch
Master okay I just move from this head
detail state to master now if I going to
give command G Branch okay I am only in
the master Branch if I'm giving command
g l okay I have W my commit and I list
literally lost this detach head head
State okay so this is how you can
temporary move your head to any of the
uh commit you want okay and you can find
out what is a state over there and once
you will come come out of it okay you
are going to lost this detach head now
you may have one another question that
but I want to preserve this so in this
case you have to create the B now let's
understand this again and this time we
are going to present this Det
okay this time I'm going to use and I'm
going to the version three you can go to
any version okay I'm going to the
version three so I'm going to copy this
1 2 3 4 5 this is version three commit
and I'm going to copy five character
okay so copy now giving command get
check
out hello everyone sorry to disturb you
I'm sure you guys are enjoying our git
git lab course if you want full access
of this course having a 83 videos you
can enroll it from our portal 400
student will get special discount there
is some limitation on YouTube we are
unable to give you support but once you
become Our Community member our instant
support is included lifetime updation
completion certification and
additionally weekly lifetime live
session with our expert babash we want
to improve your skills anyhow so that's
why we added five projects as well we
are also available on Udi still you have
any doubts any queries you can contact
me on my personal number thank you
