[Music]
hi my name is Doug Chase I'm the
director of training for Coral cyber
security and I thank you for joining me
today
so I've been asked to talk about uh
cyber security best practices uh which
is a it's a very big topic it means a
lot to different organizations for small
businesses medium businesses and
Enterprises all of which means something
different you also have best practices
for specific verticals such as
Healthcare manufacturing Financial
organizations educational institutions
you know so it's a very big topic it can
actually get very confusing to unravel
some of that confusion an organization
called the nist the National Institution
for standards and technology which is a
government organization under the
Department of Commerce put together
Frameworks that allow you to be able to
do press best practices across basically
anything that's complex and important
and cyber security is one of those
Frameworks so the framework itself for
nist is uh you know kind of hinges on
Five Pillars which is identify you know
the ability to be able to identify what
in your organ organization you want to
protect who you want to protect the
ability to protect it right so so what
information do you want to protect and
how do you how do you envision yourself
protecting this really valuable
information
being able to detect but how do we know
if something if a cyber security event
is occurring then it hinges up upon your
ability to be able to respond to it so
when an event occurs how are you as an
organization going to respond and deal
with it and then finally being able to
recover from it right do you have a
business continuity or Disaster Recovery
placement plan in case of a worst case
scenario so this framework identify
protect detect respond and recover form
the basis of many many uh different uh
categories within each of them so once
you've gone through that exercise in
terms of the identifying protecting
detecting responding recovering then you
look at your own organization when you
dig a little bit deeper nist uh you know
actually has four tiers of where they
consider organizations to be in terms of
their cyber security Readiness uh the
first one is partial which is basically
you don't have much in place at all
except maybe some of the technologies
that are already built in to uh the
products that you're currently using so
uh you know essentially you're just
leaving it up to chance and you'll deal
with whatever comes when it comes then
you have risk informed which is where an
organization has awareness of what the
risks that are out there they understand
fishing and they understand malware and
ransomware and things like that but for
whatever you know their own reasons they
don't have the tools or the resources in
place to be able to implement any of
that but at least they're aware of it
and then you have repeatable and
repeatable is where you have some of
these tools in place and you can be
proactive to a degree in terms of being
able to get out ahead of some of these
threats and then finally adaptive is the
last year and adaptive is the most
intelligent which means that you've put
tools in place that are able to adapt to
changing needs from a cyber security
risk perspective adaptive is where you
want to be because that's where your
best cyber Security Bank for your buck
is going to be the ability to be able to
adapt to new threats coming in and the
ability to be able to adapt not only to
new threats but also the ways that
attacks are occurring such as you know
within you know the data itself The
Insider threats email Cloud application
security endpoint protection right these
are things that constantly need to be
monitored constantly need to be updated
and frankly most organizations
particularly small and medium-sized
businesses don't have either the
resources in-house or the budget you
know to go best to breed across the
board that's why Coral was invented
specifically was to be able to allow
small and medium-sized businesses to
have an Enterprise like implement
rotation tier at a budget frankly that
is
incredible you know for the value that
it brings
