how can you practice good cyber security
in your own life here's five tips for
personal cyber security that you can
implement yourself
everything you do today leaves an
electronic signature that's just a fact
of modern life but there are some things
that you can do yourself to reduce the
risk of your own personal security
breach and reduce the severity if it
does happen to you number one is
actually pretty simple consider renaming
your phone you might actually be giving
your name and phone model number to
every stranger you meet cyber security
compliments physical security allowing
your phone's model number as its name is
a great way of letting a street criminal
know who to rob first and giving your
phone your own name might give a
criminal a couple of extra seconds of
advantage when they call out your name
and you wonder for a few seconds how you
know this person so instead of calling
your phone sarah's iphone 12 or jim's
pixel 5 just give your phone a generic
name my phone just says phone the second
step is a vpn so let's take a field trip
now this part of the video is sponsored
by atlas vpn but this isn't one of those
things where i'm gonna talk about how
you can stream movies from different
countries now a vpn or a virtual private
network is a software tool that allows
you to encrypt your data from your
computer or your phone all the way up to
the vpn provider once it gets to the vpn
provider the vpn provider can actually
hide your location i'm sure you've seen
plenty of youtube commercials where they
go on about watching streaming video
services in different countries and such
and that is one advantage of the vpn but
here's another advantage okay behind me
is a famous coffee shop and they've been
shut down for months now so why is their
wi-fi still on
okay check this out
one of my options for connecting to
wi-fi is coffee shop free wi-fi secured
oh how can i connect to this coffee shop
wi-fi if the place has been shut down
for months well that's because it's me i
have something called a pineapple router
in this bag right here and this
pineapple router is sucking down
information from people who want to
connect to it
and you can name it anything you want
and that means that i'm sucking down
data from everybody who gets off of the
silver spring metro stop if they try
connecting to this route so i'm sure you
can see why you might want to encrypt
from your device to the public internet
so atlas vpn is offering a heck of a
deal for subscribers to my channel if
you click on the link in the description
below you can actually get atlas vpn for
three years for
1.99 a month that's that's a heck of a
deal it's normally like 10 bucks
so it's pretty darn easy to trick
someone into thinking that they have a
valid wi-fi connection and something
like atlas vpn creates a tunnel between
your device
and the public internet that way bad
guys and hackers and the government
can't see your data
and if you don't use a laptop out in
public atlas vpn is available for iphone
and android it's even available for fire
stick so again atlas vpn is having a
sale click on the link in the
description below you can get atlas vpn
for three years for only 1.99 a month
that's down from the normal price of 10
bucks a month totally worth it protect
your computer protect your phone number
three don't reuse passwords your
password is only as good as the least
secure website that you signed up for so
let's say you do all of your online
banking at a major bank you can be
pretty sure that bank's cyber security
is probably pretty darn good but then
you sign up for a mobile game or one of
those free to play web games and you use
the same username and password that
you've used for your bank while the game
might not have the same cyber security
as the bank if hackers break into the
game and steal your username and
password they might try that username
and password at the bank and now hackers
have access to your financial data now
you might think your passwords are all
encrypted but they're kind of not
they're not encrypted they're hashed now
a hash is a one-way mathematical
function that takes your plain text
password and turns it into a jumbo of
letters and numbers now once you send
something through this mathematical hash
you can't reverse it it's like turning a
potato into a hash brown the hash brown
can never again be a potato now when you
first sign up for a website your
password is hashed and put in the
database and then when you log in that
password is dynamically hashed and
compared to the hash password that's on
file so it's actually possible for you
to build a table of every single
possible word in its equivalent hash
this is called a rainbow table this
means that if you can steal a list of
hashed passwords you can actually
reverse look up those hash passwords and
figure out what someone might use for
their normal plain text password now
there is a way for websites to make your
password less obvious when it's hashed
it's called salting but you have no idea
whether the website you're signing up
for is doing that or not the fourth
thing you can do is something called two
form factor authentication not all
companies offer this but if they do
offer it you should take advantage of it
now when i log into my bank i get an
option to generate a code that can
either be texted to me i can get a call
i can get a push notification on my
bank's app i can get an email i can call
them now having to go through that
second factor might be a bit of a pain
but it is totally worth it because it
makes your access far more secure since
that second factor is only triggered
when someone tries to access your
account it lets you know if someone who
is unauthorized is trying to access your
account and if the website lets you
choose make sure the code is sent to an
app instead of over text message or
email since text message and email can
be insecure the fifth tip is to create a
machine of high trust this means getting
a separate machine and a separate email
just for financial transactions so this
is a chromebook and i got it for like
200 bucks off of amazon this is the only
thing i access my bank or financial
information on if i transfer money i do
it on the chromebook if i trade a stock
i do it on the chromebook if i pay a
credit card i do it on the chromebook i
also have a special email that i only
use for financial institutions you can
do the same thing just by getting a free
gmail or yahoo mail account and calling
it
yourname.lastname.bank or whatever this
helps prevent phishing attacks because
it reduces impulsivity only a couple of
companies have that email address and
you only check that email on that
physical segregated device so those are
the five tips if you take away anything
i want you to understand that cyber
security is always a trade-off between
security and convenience but a little
bit of added inconvenience can go a long
way to keep you secure thank you for
watching
[Music]
