foreign
[Music]
Services YouTube channel in this video
we're going to talk about the top 10
best cyber security practices to prevent
yourself from cyber attacks so we are
not going to waste any time and jump
right inside the video at number one we
have enabling the firewall protection
now a firewall filters the traffic
entering into your network it acts as
the first line of defense against the
cyber attacks so that is why enabling
firewall is crucial to prevent yourself
from cyber attacks in addition to that
firewall prevents unauthorized users
from accessing your mail web and network
resources now the cool thing about
firewall is that you can deploy
firewalls at multiple points within your
network so that is how firewalls is
necessary to prevent yourself from cyber
attacks at number 2 we have the
implementation of endpoint protection
firstly the endpoint production is
curing and uses devices typically end
user devices such as personal computers
mobile phones routers storage disk Etc
are major weak points for cyber attacker
secondly endpoint action involves
monitoring and securing user devices
against cyber threats now it combines
both device level and network level
defenses to restrict access to the
company's ID systems that is how
implementing an endpoint protection can
really save your business at number 3 we
have the installation of anti-malware
and anti-virus softwares the both
anti-malware and antivirus software help
prevent cyber attacks anti-malware
protection helps prevent militia
attackers from impending malware into
your it systems whereas the anti-virus
protection deals with viruses Trojans
and warm attacks so having both
anti-malware and antivirus software is a
crucial step to safeguard your business
at number 4 we have the use of
multi-factor authentication now a
multi-factor authentication helps
prevent unauthorized people from logging
into your crucial Business Systems even
if your credentials have been
compromised this is an additional layer
in addition to your password that a user
has to pass before gaining access to
your account typically with a
multi-factor authentication you get a
notification on your mobile device on
either your network which can be through
a SMS or a code to your authentication
application which can be Google
Authenticator or any other
authentication application on the market
at number 5 we have connecting to a
secure Wi-Fi Now securing Wi-Fi is one
of the Cyber Security's best practices
to prevent from cyber attacks Wi-Fi
networks can easily be hacked leading to
the compromise of entire company's
Network so that is why having a secured
Wi-Fi is a crucial step to prevent
yourself from cyber attacks after that
at number 6 we have the vulnerability
assessment now vulnerability assessment
involves the scanning of the entire ID
environment for vulnerabilities that can
lead to cyber attacks now it helps
review any security weaknesses and the
susceptibility of an attack through a
vulnerability assessment you can detect
weak points and Implement remedies and
mitigation to reduce the risk of attacks
now before moving on to the 7th best
practice make sure to check out the link
in the description box for the active
directory and the Office 360 5 auditing
tool which is known as infra SOS now
infrar SOS helps user confirm their
active directory and Office 365 users
are compliant and secure from any
potential cyber attacks again the link
to infra SOS would be in the description
box after that at number 7 we have the
creation of stable cyber security
policies a cyber security policy is a
set of documented rules and regulations
and processes that an organization uses
to elevate cyber attacks the policies
set standards for behavior for
activities such as access of online
accounts encryption of data use of
organization resources and so much more
now a few examples of cyber security
policies can be Access Control policy
business continuity policy Disaster
Recovery plan acceptable use policy and
so much more at number eight we have
security training now strengthening the
human element is among the best cyber
security practices to prevent yourself
from cyber attacks now training your
staff against cyber attacks can highly
reduce the risk of being a victim to
cyber attacks such as phishing email
scams and so much more so that is why
you really need to put emphasis on
training your staff against these cyber
attacks next up we have backing up your
data now a data backup is a copy of data
stored in a separate search platform for
use in case of a malicious act or righty
disaster in addition a data backup is
helpful in the event of data loss or
compromise now this means that the data
backup can help you to prevent the
business downtime in case of any
hardware failure or Cyber attack against
your business and lastly we have the
password policies now password policies
can help protect users against cyber
attacks you should always Implement a
strong password policy to prevent
unauthorized data access now for this
you can utilize a password manager now
password manager can help you with the
creation of the strong passwords and the
management of strong passwords now there
are multiple password manager utilities
which even include scams so be careful
and choose only the authentic one note
that that also brings us to the end of
the top 10 best cyber security practices
to prevent yourself from cyber attacks
now if you have learned anything new
make sure to leave a comment in the
comment section down below and finally
if this video has helped you in any way
make sure to leave a like And subscribe
to the channel
