welcome to this Splunk tutorial for
beginners if you've ever felt
overwhelmed by Machine data struggled
with logs or wondered how to monitor
your systems effectively you're in the
right place today we're diving into
Splunk a powerful platform that
transforms raw data into actionable
insights whether you're an IT
professional a security Enthusiast or
simply curious about unlocking the
potential of machine data Splunk is here
to help in this video I'll walk you
through the basics from installation to
reporting and monitoring so by the end
you'll be well on your way to mastering
Splunk with its real-time monitoring and
log analysis you'll soon wonder how you
managed without it so grab a cup of
coffee get comfortable and let's make
data analysis less intimidating and a
lot more fun stick around till the end
where I'll share Advanced tips and
tricks you won't want to miss but before
we get started I'm Jasmine and this
channel is all about showing you how to
become a highly paid cyber security
ethical hacking or Cloud Pro
fast what is Splunk and why is it
important Splunk is a platform designed
for real-time searching monitoring and
analyzing machine generated data from
servers and applications to networks and
devices machine data like logs and
metrics is created constantly and
managing this data manually is nearly
impossible that's where Splunk comes in
Splunk acts as a central Hub collecting
indexing and processing machine data so
you can easily search through it to
extract valuable insights whether it's
web server logs or network security
events splunk's powerful capabilities
make it simple to sift through massive
data sets quickly system requirements
and
prerequisites before diving into Splunk
ensure your system meets the necessary
requirements for local setups you'll
need a decent CPU 8 to 16 GB of RAM and
plenty of storage for logs Splunk runs
on Windows Mac OS and Linux But be sure
you have the necessary user permissions
for installation in larger environments
scaling up resources is essential to
maintain performance and don't forget
network configurations especially if
you're setting up a distributed
environment Splunk can be resource
intensive but once it's running it'll
handle real-time data monitoring and
analytics like a pro installation of
Splunk to work with Splunk you first
have to download and install the Splunk
Enterprise Edition on your computer
locally for this purpose open any
browser on your system just like I have
opened Google Chrome here search for the
splunk.com website and hit enter it'll
take some time to open the web page as
per your internet provider speed once
opened the main page of Splunk will be
visible from here you can find find
various resources for your team and get
a quick overview of Splunk moreover this
page contains several beneficial links
that can help you understand more about
the security and Observatory provided by
Splunk it is highly recommended to
explore each section of the main page
and gather as much information as
possible to prevent any future bugs or
faulty results on scrolling to the
bottom of the page or on reaching the
footer section you'll see considerable
quick links from here select the free
trials and downloads link once clicked
the free tools and downloads page will
open and from here you have to find the
Splunk Enterprise download section and
then hit its get a free trial button
this will divert you to a Splunk
Enterprise account creation page on this
page you have to provide your
credentials like email password first
name last name job title phone number
company country and zip or postal code
after entering the credentials check the
below to boxes and hit the create your
account button after the creation of
your account login to Splunk Enterprise
here provide your email along with the
password that you provided during the
creation of your Splunk account after
logging in you'll be redirected to the
Splunk Enterprise downloads page here
the current version available for
download will be available along with
the packages that you can download
specific to your operating system like
Windows Linux or Mac OS as I am a
Windows user I am downloading the Splunk
Enterprise version for Windows by
clicking on the download now button
after that you'll be directed towards
the rules and policies page which you
have to read and scroll down at the
bottom until you find a checkbox once
found check the box and click on the
access program button after accepting a
new download page will appear and the
location is asked from you where you
want to install the installer provide
the path and click save to start the
downloading of the
installer after the completion of a
download open the Splunk installer and
accept the license agreement it shows
you some default installation options
you can either go with the defaults or
customize them by clicking on the
customize options button next click on
the next button to start the
installation process and enter the
username password confirm password field
and hit the next button your password
needs to be hard level so you must use
the combination of alphabets numbers and
special characters lastly check the box
and select the install button and the
installation procedure will start once
the installation process ends which is
going to take some time hit the Finish
button to exit from the installation
wizard next the Splunk Enterprise login
page will open on your default web
browser here you can read the
instructions if it's your first time
then enter the username and the
corresponding password in the men
mentioned fields and hit the sign in
button this will open the Splunk
Enterprise dashboard and some rules or
tips will appear which you can read if
you want and hit the got it button this
is what your Splunk homepage looks like
and as you can see it is divided into
multiple sections namely bookmarks
dashboard search history recently viewed
created by you and many more these
sections or tabs help you in analyzing
data more easily and quickly to get
started navigate to the dashboard Tab
and select choose a home dashboard from
the drop- down menu you can choose from
various pre-built dashboard components
depending on the metrics or Services you
wish to monitor for instance you might
opt to track system performance service
health or even specific security related
data points once you've made your
selection click the save button and your
dashboard will start displaying realtime
data feeds
this allows you to instantly view
visualizations like time charts bar
graphs and line graphs which provide
immediate insights into how your systems
are performing to further tailor your
dashboard to your specific needs you can
easily modify its components by clicking
the change button you can add additional
elements such as single value
visualizations which are great for key
metrics like CPU usage or uptime
statistical charts or even custom data
views that fit your operational
requirements these components offer
flexibility in how you want to represent
your data whether you need a quick
overview or an in-depth analysis of
certain kpis after making adjustments
the dashboard updates in real time
giving you an evolving picture of your
system's health for more granular
insights each dashboard component
includes an open Button which allows you
to dive deeper into specific data sets
this feature is invaluable for it
administrators or security teams who
need to troubleshoot issues or monitor
critical services for example clicking
into a CPU usage component will provide
detailed metrics logs and historical
data enabling teams to identify
performance bottlenecks or pinpoint the
source of an issue these in-depth views
are essential for maintaining smooth
operations and preemptively identifying
potential risks if certain dashboard
components are no longer relevant or you
want to simplify your view you can
remove unnecessary Elements by clicking
the remove button this helps keep the
dashboard clean and focused ensuring
you're only looking at the most critical
data points at any given time over time
as your monitoring needs evolve you can
continually adjust and refine your
dashboards making Splunk an incredibly
versatile tool for dynamic real-time
data management Splunk dashboards are an
essential tool for monitoring platform
Health visualizing key data points and
maintaining service performance in real
time by utilizing Splunk dashboard
features effectively you not only gain a
comprehensive understanding of your
platform's health but also position
yourself to respond proactively to any
potential issues this flexibility and
depth in monitoring capabilities makes
Splunk a powerful asset for anyone
managing complex it environments
providing a centralized real-time view
into the performance and security of
your services
now let's create some event log
collections by clicking the settings
option from the navigation bar and from
the drop-down list select the data
inputs option from the data inputs web
page select the first data input type
named local event log collection on the
new page select the events or categories
whose event logs you want to retrieve
just like I am selecting the logs of
application security and system you can
also Choose Or set the destination index
for the source for the logs to be
retrieved or you can go with the default
just like I am going once done hit the
save button and a confirmation alert
message will appear as well next move
back to the data inputs web page by
clicking on the data inputs Link at the
top left side of the web page to confirm
whether our custom set log collections
are built or not choose the second
option of the remote event log
collections option here you can see that
our log collection is available and is
enabled
from this page you can also create more
event logs by clicking on the new event
log collections button and you can also
filter the collections using the filter
field now select the app tab from the
navigation bar and from the drop-down
select the search and Reporting option
using this option you can search for
specific logs or events and can analyze
your event logs in multiple ways if you
enter the asterisk symbol in the search
bar all collected logs will be retrieved
and displayed on the screen this screen
is divided into four tabs events
patterns statistics and
visualization once the events are
retrieved a success message will also
appear like this in the event tab all
events are displayed along with their
time and short descriptions or details
about the event you can also customize
the overview or formatting of retrieved
logs using the provided options from
here you can choose the number of logs
to display on each page and the
formatting of logs to make them display
in the list table or in raw format
moreover by choosing the format option
you can select the max lines and the
type of selection to perform on clicking
which can be inner outer or full Above
This section the timeline section is
available that showcases the event logs
in terms of graph and there are some
options available to customize the
appearance of this timeline moreover you
can choose the fields if you want to
make their data also retrieved on on the
screen to get all Fields select the all
Fields button and from the retrieved
Fields you can check or uncheck to
display the log data regarding the
specified Fields just like I am enabling
the account domain and account name
fields you can also filter out these
fields list or resort to specific
criteria to make searching fast moreover
you can select or unselect fields in
bulk as well using the available options
at the top of the page now let's open
the start menu by hitting the window key
available on the taskbar and then search
for The Event Viewer which is already
installed on all systems once appears
click on the open Button from The Event
Viewer screen click on the Windows log
to open the logs for the windows here
you can pick any field or folder at
random just like I am choosing security
next right click on the security folder
and from the appeared option select the
clear logs option to clear the logs for
system It'll ask for the confirmation
you can either save these logs and then
clear or simply clear just like I am
doing next move back to the Splunk
Enterprise web page and display the data
in list format for better visualization
and add some Fields into the search bar
to filter out the desired result to add
a field in the search bar click on that
field like I am clicking on the event
code and from the drop- down options
click on the first option namely add to
search search as you can see once
clicked it will render now you can also
add a filter of event code having a
specific value for this insert the equal
to symbol and insert code inside the
double quotation you can see that now
all event logs having specified event
codes are
retrieved in the same manner add other
fields like computer name Source host
date and time or any other if you want
these fields narrow down your result
just like I have reached my required
event log the result also appears
graphically on the timeline as well you
can alter the timeline graph as per your
need using the displayed options now I
am copying the search query by
right-clicking on the field and then
selecting the copy option after that
select the create table view button to
create a new table a new table page will
appear if it is your first time you can
click on the continue to tour button to
start the tour for this page or you can
simply click on the skip button on this
page the table gets created according to
your saved search query as you can see
you can customize the fields to be
displayed in your table using the panel
situated at the left side of your screen
from here you can add or remove Fields
just like I have added the host and
keywords fields and also added then
removed the message field you can also
filter out specific Fields by mentioning
their names and selecting the summary
button to view the summary of each table
column you can tweak the options
available on the table page to customize
the data and filter out the unrequired
data as per your needs if you have more
than one table you can also sort them in
ascending and descending order using the
sort option finally let's now move
toward the creation of a dashboard from
the navigation bar select the dashboard
option
the alert message will appear asking you
to take a tour if you want Splunk to
tell you about the dashboard then go
ahead and take the tour if you already
know about the Splunk dashboard then
select the skip button on the dashboard
page multiple already created dashboards
are displayed you can either select or
edit one of them or click on the create
new dashboard to make your own new
dashboard after that a dialogue box will
appear that takes data for the creation
of a dashboard here you have to enter
the title of the dashboard descriptions
and can set the permissions moreover you
are also asked to set the styling of the
dashboard and the layout which I am
going to choose as the grid once you're
done select the create button after that
the dashboard creation page will open
where you can find various tabs and
options using these you can insert
multiple elements or fully customize
your dashboard according to your needs
you can also switch the dashboard theme
between light and dark
modes click on the first column graph
image type button and from here you can
find various methods of inserting data
we are going to pick the first one named
table because we want to insert the
table in our dashboard for now after
clicking on the table the settings or
data sources will appear on the right
side of a page next open the search data
source and click on the create search
button to create a new data Source enter
the data source name or just go with the
default one and paste the copied search
query inside the SPL query section
scroll down and enter the table name
along with its short description next
open the visibility option and check or
leave empty the option to hide elements
when data is unavailable then open the
data display option and from here you
can choose the number of rows to be
displayed or can add row numbers and
internal Fields as you like after that
open the color and style option to set
the background and text color or to
change the font style and font size to
enhance the visibility factors these are
options that you can choose as per your
preferences you should try all of them
on your own if these settings become
invisible due to some factors or because
you have clicked on the dashboard
section then you can bring them back by
clicking on the table and the settings
for that table will become visible again
moreover using the source code option
you can see the XML data or source code
for your table and you can also o tweak
here as per your personal needs or
requirements of the client once you're
done click on the save button to save
the dashboard along with its containing
data after saving you'll notice that now
your created dashboard is available next
to the already created dashboards along
with its owner permissions and other
data now click on your dashboard to see
it in a print or final layout next click
on the actions button to perform several
operations on the dashboard like
downloading of a dashboard in PDF or PNG
cloning of the dashboard view on mobile
screens edit permissions and many more
from these options click on the set as
home dashboard option to set this
dashboard as a default dashboard on your
Splunk account homepage now when you
move back to your homepage and open the
dashboard tab you'll notice that your
recently made dashboard is already set
as a default dashboard as required
splunk's realworld use cases Splunk is
widely used across Industries offering
immense flexibility for various use
cases in it operations it serves as a
centralized hub for machine data
enabling teams to monitor performance
detect issues early and even predict
failures for example when an e-commerce
company experiences a traffic Spike
Splunk can identify bottlenecks and
optimize performance in re real time
ensuring minimal disruption in cyber
security Splunk is invaluable for
detecting unauthorized access and
malware activity by analyzing logs and
events across networks financial
institutions rely on it for fraud
detection and compliance monitoring
processing millions of events per second
to stay ahead of potential breaches for
business analytics Splunk helps
organizations extract insights from
customer and operational data retailers
for instance can use Splunk to analyze
shopping Behavior identify peak times
and monitor product Trends driving data
informed decisions that boost
profitability in short Splunk
versatility in it cyber security and
business analytics makes it
indispensable for improving operational
efficiency security and business
intelligence best practices for managing
Splunk effective Splunk management
ensures you're getting the most out of
your data start by setting up data
collection thoughtfully filter out
irrelevant logs to avoid overloading the
system and driving up costs focus on
actionable data from critical systems
like firewalls or authentication servers
optimizing searches is crucial use
splunk's search processing language SPL
wisely by narrowing queries and applying
filters this not only improves relevance
but also reduces load and boosts speed
techniques like field extractions and
indexed Fields help further enhance
performance managing indexes is key as
data grows Implement retention policies
to clean up old data and allocate
storage wisely to prevent system
slowdowns regular maintenance such as
patch updates and system health checks
ensures your Splunk environment remains
efficient and scalable extending Splunk
with add-ons and apps splunk's
capabilities can be expanded through its
ecosystem of addon and apps the machine
learning toolkit mltk allows you to
build predictive models enabling
insights into future trends like
potential security vulnerabilities or
system degradation for instance it teams
can forecast Hardware failures and
address them proactively Splunk
Enterprise security transforms the
platform into a comprehensive security
information and event management
solution essential for detecting
Advanced threats and ensuring compl
clients Industries like finance and
Healthcare with high security demands
heavily depend on this tool Splunk it
service intelligence offers Advanced
dashboards for monitoring complex it
infrastructures providing a holistic
view of system health and service kpi
it's crucial for minimizing downtime and
maintaining seamless operations
additionally Splunk integrates
seamlessly with major cloud services
like AWS Azure and Google Cloud this
integration makes it IDE deal for hybrid
Cloud environments offering unified data
monitoring across on premise and Cloud
systems that wraps up our Splunk
tutorial now that you understand what
Splunk is and how to use it for it
Operations Security and business
insights you're ready to explore its
full potential remember Splunk is like
an all- knowing friend ask the right
questions and you'll get the answers you
need if you found this video helpful
give it a thumbs up and share it with
others don't forget to subscribe for
more deep dives into splunk's advanced
features have questions or tips drop
them in the comments below and let's
keep the conversation going thanks for
watching keep your logs in check and
your data flowing
[Music]
smoothly check out the video on the
right for more content to help you
develop your it career
[Music]
