this short video deals with an ethical
aspect of AI and it's something that I
think is important for all of us to
really think about and start to
understand that there's lots of gray
areas associated with AI but at the very
least it's important for us to have some
awareness and then for us to think about
these things as well as to pose them to
our students and to have them think
about it because that is a great and
powerful way to help develop their care
itical thinking so this deals with the
idea of the data that AI is using in
order to develop its large language
models specifically open AI right
they're they're sort of the main
players here we go in looking at the the
many different lawsuits that are going
on right now because open AI has used
all this data throughout the internet
without permissions from a lot of those
different sources initially you have to
think that oh okay this is this is wrong
if they don't have permission to do
something then they can't just be taking
it on some levels yes and no because if
someone is simply reading a book well
they're observing that and they're
learning from that regardless of where
that book is because yes it's
copyrighted material but I could have
checked it out from library uh I could
have read it at a bookstore so now
there's a little bit of gray area there
right because they're not regurgitating
it word for word no it's just simply
being used as a training aspect so
that's an argument that could be made
now another argument that open AI is
specifically making about this uh comes
from from a journal here I want to read
specifically what it states this is from
AI news and it states that open AI made
waves this week with its bold assertion
to a UK parliamentary committee that it
would be impossible to develop today's
leading AI system systems without using
vast amounts of copyrighted material in
written testimony open aai stated that
between expansive copyright laws and the
ubiquity of protected online content
virtually every sort of human expression
would be off limits for training data
from news articles to Forum comments to
digital images little online content can
be utilized freely and legally according
to open AI attempts to create capable AI
while avoiding copyright infringement
would fail limiting training data to
public domain books and drawings created
more than a century ago would not
provide AI systems that meet the needs
of today's citizens so that's an
interesting take and it does make a lot
of sense in that if we want uh an AI
that has modern capabilities modern
understanding well it needs to be
trained on Modern data so now we have
again this uh this situation where in
order for it to to be this capable AI it
needs access to to everything basically
in order to be able to give us this type
of information this modern upto-date
current information so as a society we
really need to be thinking about that as
far as
copyright AI open AI they're working
with a lot of different Publishers to
try and come up with you know payments
that they'll give them for access to
some of that but that won't cover
everything
throughout the entire internet so it's
going to be something to really think
about again to analyze as far as the
ethical implications whether that's
right that's wrong what about the
greater good all these things really
need to come into play and again there
can be multiple truths this is right and
so is this but what about the overall
right and wrong of this I don't have all
the answers but I want to bring this out
so that this is something that we
continually talk about uh here with
academics but again this is something
really important that should be brought
up to the students as well have them
really think about this come up with
pros and cons some ideas that really
support this some ideas that might be
against this this is where critical
thinking comes in this is where deep
learning comes in by having some more uh
emotional connection to this and then by
thinking about this on a deeper level
for both sides because there are
arguments to be made for both sides so
by looking deeper into the the ethical
aspects of of open AI of AI in general
how generative AI has developed and will
continue to develop that really will
help students and will help Academia in
general and remember learning is for
[Music]
life thank you and if You' made it this
far and you've gotten some good use out
of this content please consider liking
sharing and subscribing I really
appreciate
it
