so let's imagine that you wanted to
start with data analysis with python and
let's also imagine that you're very good
with the you know basics of python so
the very first test that would be given
to you is to create your own data frame
with it let's see how to do
that so we start by importing pandas in
our case so import pandas as we can take
PD the data is in the form of a
dictionary which has a key which is
nothing but the column's name followed
by a list of values that is supposed to
be the values for that column and H we
have like more columns the same way I've
given four columns over here now how do
I convert this dictionary in form of a
data frame so we use uh make a variable
DF use pandas and that's why we have
imported it followed by data frame and
in the brackets we pass the data which
is our information and that I wanted to
convert it so now I call DF to run so
like let's run all the cells here the
first cell second third so we can see
now it in it's in the form of table
right so good luck and check out the
channel for more things
