now let's talk about or get
understanding on the types of cloud
computing we can categorize the
different types of cloud computing based
on two wide categories one being
deployment model and the other one being
servers model let's talk about the
deployment model first deployment model
is categorized into three types first
one is public and then private and then
hybrid cloud in other words public Cloud
private cloud and hybrid Cloud it'll be
easy for me to explain and also it'll be
easy for you to understand if I walk you
through this example consider the
different types of vehicles we use to
commute from one place to another for
example if I want to travel I can pick a
bus which is accessible to anyone I get
in and I pay for the seat that I occupy
and I pay for the time that I will be
traveling in it and I'm done cost is
very less here a similar kind of thing
happens in the public Cloud I pay only
for the resource that I use and I pay
for how long I use it if I use less I
pay less if I use more I I pay more for
that month simple on the other hand
private cloud is like buying your own
car and using it for commuting purpose
here I pay a huge amount UPF front and
it is all owned only by me I do not pay
for it in an odly fashion but completely
and all upfront the cost here is very
huge and thirdly if I want the best of
both types like the comfort of the own
car and still don't want to pay all UPF
front otherwise want only to pay for the
time that I use the service I can rent a
car similarly I can have it in a hybrid
environment meaning if I already have a
DC I can integrated it with the cloud
and use both the DCS and that would
become an hybrid environment all right
so that was good of an uh learning let's
summarize the types of cloud based on
deployment models and as we know now
about the public Cloud public cloud is
an Cloud infrastructure that's made
available to the general public over the
internet and it is owned by the cloud
provider some of the major players as
Cloud providers are AWS Microsoft Azure
IBM's blue cloud and suncloud and
private Cloud now this Cloud
infrastructure is exclusively operated
by a single organization it can be
managed by organizations or third party
and may exist on premises or off
premises doesn't matter but the point
here is this is exclusively operated for
a single organization and some companies
that provide private cloud are AWS and
VMware and hybrid Cloud gives the best
of both public and the private Cloud for
example the federal agencies they opt
for private clouds for storing and
developing personal data and they use
public Cloud to share the non-sensitive
data with the general public or with
other government departments now let's
talk about different clouds based on the
service model if we need to categorize
them broadly we can categorize them as
infrastructure as a service I s or
platform as a service P or software as a
service s they sometimes are referred to
as is p and SAS now at this moment you
could be like this guy thinking Sam I
thought you're done categorizing the
cloud now you're going to talk about
three more categories which one should I
pick well let me explain if all that you
want is just an Wim and you have all the
expertise to install the software on top
of it and make it work then go for is if
you only want a platform or an interface
to program or an interface to upload a
program and make it run then pick pass
or if all that you want is a finished
product hosted in the cloud and be able
to access it through the internet then
go for SAS here you get a username and
password for an application and you can
begin to customize the application based
on your needs all right let's talk about
um IAS in a bit more detail I it gives
basic Computing infra it's based on uh
pay for what you use model and some of
the cloud providers who are big players
are AWS Azure and Google and here the
users generally will be it admins in
pass the provider gives you a platform
or a runtime environment for developing
testing and managing application it's
platform ready you buy the platform you
upload your code and you start working
on it and it allows the software
developers to deploy applications
without running the underlying
infrastructure and as you might have
guessed by now the interesting
candidates who would use Pas is software
developers and in SAS everything is
managed by the vendor be it the hardware
or the software it's managed by the
vendor and we pay for the service and we
pay for it through a pay as youo
subscription model and as you might have
guessed the end users here would be End
customer itself all right let's put
together everything in the same page and
compare and contrast the different types
of service models in this chart it
explains the difference between the four
models starting from on premises to I as
and then pass and S it is
self-explanatory that the resources
managed by us are huge in on premises
and little less in is and further less
or reduced in p and nothing to manage
when it comes to SAS let me also explain
the different types of cloud services
through an example like this let's say
that you have a crush on cake and you're
planning to bake one yourself now let's
look at the options you can have you can
make all the ingredients yourself be the
floor uh butter and uh you know put
together and bake the whole thing
yourself using your own oven pan you
know the needed water and the rest you
get an idea right everything is yours
and that's on premises all that you use
is owned by you and nothing is managed
by the vendor the other options you can
have is buy the ingredients and mix and
bake the cake yourself now this would be
like I ass here the infra is managed by
the provider and we get to use it and
customize it the way we want it here the
cloud service isn't share responsibility
the other options you still have on hand
is simply pick a phone and order a cake
now this is lot simpler than the rest we
discussed so far you know it's simply
picking the phone and ordering the cake
and pay for it when it arrives simple
and when it reaches home you will have
to arrange the table garnish the cake if
that's needed and then enjoy the cake
it's the same way with pass just get the
platform in which you would run your
code and upload your code and start
running your application here you and
the vendor still share the
responsibility you still have one more
option left that is simply go out and
dine this is a lot lot simpler that it
requires no effort from us at all you
buy the fully finished and garnished
cake and pay for it and walk out no
responsibility on making the cake it's
the same way with SAS we buy the
finished product product and pay for the
finished application I really hope you
enjoy this video I'll meet you in the
next video thank
you hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learn YouTube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos to nerd up and get certified
click
here
