all right good morning everybody and
welcome to today's training so today's
training we are going to be talking
about the nist CSF 2.0 framework so this
is something that has been very very hot
off the press the last few weeks it was
released towards the end of February by
nist and everybody's been talking about
it and I've had several of you ask me
questions about this so that's why I
decided to put a training together to
really do a deep dive of Nest CSF 2.0
and more importantly for you guys as um
all part of my it audit training program
I want you to Al also understand the
implications for your it audit or it
compliance career so let me go ahead and
get started with the training so today's
training like I said is the ncsf 2.0 and
we're going to be understanding the
framework so let's take a look at the
topics that we have for
today here are the topics we're going to
cover it seems there are three key areas
that I really want to cover so the first
in the first area is an introduction to
n CSF 2.0 what is it right why is it
even important why are we looking at
this and then the main part of today's
training would be the N CSF 2.0
components so there are several key
components within it that make it that
make the framework what it is so we'll
be doing a deep dive into those
components and then at the end we're
going to talk about the implications for
it cyber security audit and compliance
careers and then we'll have Q&A at the
end I may allow some Q&A in the middle
but let's see how we we we do with time
because I know we have some limited time
today but definitely make sure that if
you have questions you can put them in
the chat or when I ask for questions at
the end you can speak up and ask for
them okay I'll ask your questions so
let's take a look at this I'm going to
stop my camera just for a bit so that we
can get into the main slide here and
then I'll be back on camera for um other
parts of the
training all right so our first topic
today is an introduction to NIS CSF 2.0
what is NIS CSF 2.0 okay so let's take a
look at the official definition first I
always like to go through the official
definition first before we then talk
about it in simple terms that you guys
can all really understand so from the N
CSF website and um at the end of class
today I'll send um an update where you
guys will get all the different links
but from this n CSF website the
definition of the CSF framework is that
the cyber security framework work
provides cyber security risk management
guidance to companies and so when we say
companies this could be Industries or
governmental agencies nist is a
governmental agency so a lot of what
they do applies to both public
organizations as well as government
agencies so that's what the framework is
for and the cool thing about NSF 2.0 is
that 2.0 is the updated version the good
thing about this is it can be used by
all organizations so whether your
organization is small regardless L of
the industry it's in whether it's in
health care or manufacturing or again a
government agency or even regardless of
the maturity level did they just start
building out a cyber security function
or do they already have a function
that's been active for years right
regardless of that companies can use
this framework to understand prior
assess prioritize and communicate their
cyber security efforts so those are four
key wordss from the N CSF website but
before we keep going into an
introduction here one of the challenges
that I've typically seen is that people
don't even understand what a framework
is so when they don't understand what a
framework is it's difficult them for uh
it's difficult for them to understand
what we're talking about so before I get
into the specifics of nist let's talk
about what a framework is as a reminder
some of you might know this from my
class already but let's do a quick
refresher on that so that when we come
back to the definition you will you will
better understand what n
is so what is an IT framework an IT
framework provides guidance on best
practices so let's say that again an IT
framework provides guidance on best
practices that can be used to develop
the it cyber security control um
environment of an organization so let me
come on camera because I want you guys
to really get this piece when you have a
framework the framework is not telling
you exactly what to to do the framework
is giving you an outline and it's
telling you what the best practices are
out there right that a company should
consider implementing into their
Organization for them to have a good
control environment so again when you
think of Frameworks always think of it
as this is providing guidance it's not
prescriptive it's not telling me exactly
what to do but as an organization the
framework is telling us this is what
we've seen work in other places so this
is what you might want to consider when
you are putting it control environment
together so based on that right some
examples we know are nist and there are
so many different Frameworks for nist
right we have CSF RMF 853 there's so
many different ones but that's an
example we have Koso we have kobit right
but the key thing I want you to learn or
remember is that the framework is not a
standard so this is not SS 18 it's not
PCI and it's not a law likee socks that
says You must meet this requirement it's
giving guidance on what you should do in
order to have an effective control
environment and the benefit of following
Frameworks is that once you have a good
control environment then you have a
higher chance right of meeting any other
standards that you have to comply with
like SSA 18 PCI ISO and things like that
all right so based on now you guys
better understanding let me do this
there's folks trying to get in hold on
sorry okay so based on based on that
better understanding of what a framework
is let's now go back to the definition
right so the framework is providing risk
management guidance so this is very
specific to cyber security risk
management guidance for Industries
government agencies and other
organizations so hopefully that
definition of um a framework is is now
helping you better understand why n CSF
is even a thinge why is it that people
need to why is it that people are
talking about n CSF 2.0 and why is it
important it's because it's giv that
framework of how the cyber security risk
management should be handled in an
organization so that they have Best in
Class best practices okay so let me you
put this in simple terms you know I like
to put things in simple terms so in
simple terms the CSF is intended to
provide guidance on practices and
controls it is not to prescribe specific
outcomes what do I mean by that it's not
telling organiz gations you have to do
ABC in order to get this outcome it's
telling organizations here are the
things you should consider for your it
processes for your it controls so that
you can be compliant well so that first
of all you have a good well-designed it
environment which in turn will help you
be compliant with the standards that we
talk about in our it audit programs and
for just to wrap this section off
because we're going to use the word
outcome a lot in this um training so I
want you to understand what what I mean
by outcome the outcome means what the
company is looking to achieve what do
they really want their cyber security
posture to look like because the reality
is a small M and pop you know private
company that doesn't do a lot on cyber
security might not want a very rigorous
or robust cyber security risk posture
like Walmart ra or like Amazon that's
exposed to a lot of risk so companies
get to decide what outcome they want and
then based on the outcome they want then
they have the ability to say that's what
we want and this is how we're going to
follow this guidance in order to achieve
that outcome all right so that gives you
the introduction to CSF now based on
that definition and understanding that
the CSF is providing a framework or
guidance on how to perform controls
we're now going to dive deep into what
CSF is what the different components are
and then we'll continue with the
training there
okay
all right so let's do
this the next section all right so the
next section that we're going to cover
in today's training is what are the N
CSF 2.0 components and we're going to
cover a lot here so I'm going to preface
that by saying don't worry you don't
need to memorize all of this today I
will be sharing links to the actual n
CSF documents and the site where you can
download the different documents and
then whenever I put this on the course
website it also will be uploaded so for
today just focus on understanding and
thinking through how this impacts or um
impacts or the implications for your
career okay so let's talk about the N
CSF 2.0
components there are three to there are
three components to n CSF 2.0 okay so
the first one is the CSF core second is
CSF organizational profiles and third is
CSF tiers we're going to go through each
one in detail but just to do a quick
introduction so you have an idea of what
we're talking about the CSF core is
really the meat right the main part of
the N CSF um 2.0 it's it shows the
hierarchy of functions and if you don't
understand what this terms mean that's
okay I'll be explaining those in a
little bit but it shows the hierarchy of
functions categories and subcategories
that detail the outcomes that a company
wants and we'll talk about those in
detail don't worry and then the
organizational profile oh there's a typo
there sorry but the organizational
profile is showing the current and the
target profile that the organization
wants and then the tiers is the
characterization of the rigor so
remember earlier I said organizations
get to choose whether or not or the
level of cyber security risk management
they want so the ti is what helps
organizations determine what it is or
the level that they want okay so the cor
is the hierarchy of functions the
organizational profile shows the current
and the target Prof profile for the
organization and sorry about that typo
we'll address that later but then the
tiers shows the rigor what's the rigor
of the risk management practices that
the organization wants okay all right so
let's go ahead and talk about the CSF
core and this is the main part of
today's
training so as I mentioned earlier the
CSF core is the hierarchy of functions
categories and subcategories that detail
the outcomes right that detail what is
it that a company wants to achieve and
there are six main functions previously
before CSF 2.0 the Govern that first one
you see there was not there we just had
identify protect detect respond and
recover but one of the big changes with
this particular framework this
particular version is that the Govern
function was added so this is just a
quick overview of what it looks like in
the N presentation and or in the N
document and what you'll see here is
that govern if you look at this image it
really goes around the N cyber security
framework so let me ask you guys a
question I want this to be a little bit
interactive here when you hear govern
right you guys have been in my it a
class we talk about compliance some what
do you think of when you hear the word
govern what what's the first thing that
comes to mind there's an acronym right
that should come to your mind when you
hear the word govern what's that acronym
and if you can't speak up you can just
put it in the chat let's see there's an
acronym that has the word g in it
I just gave you the answer GRC exactly
exactly GRC so believe it or not
previously n tsf did not have the G it
didn't have govern in it now the reality
is that it was kind of embedded in all
the other areas but what they've done
with cfsf 2.0 is they've actually
brought it out and kind of called it out
as its own function as opposed to being
embedded in the other six the other five
functions so now there are six functions
we have govern identify protect detect
respond and recover and we're going to
talk about each one of those as we go
through the training today
okay and here is just a very high level
view of again the five functions and the
you can see on the screen we have the
Govern function and then you have the
category so remember the core function
has the the function the category and
the subcategories which we'll take a
look at but this goes to some sumarize
right what the functions are and the
categories so let's go into each
function so that we can get a better
understanding of what it is and I'm
going you guys are going to start
understanding because now you'll see the
relationship with some of the other
things you've
learned so the Govern function this is
the first function again this impacts
all other functions the Govern function
is really around uh establishing
policies procedures and processes and
one of the things that you guys have
learned from the it or the fundamental
course is like the policies are very
important the policies and procedures
are important because they really detail
the um the processes the detail the
controls so a governance function really
needs to have policies and process uh
procedures in place because that's
what's going to Define what the
organization should be doing so when you
review the Govern function for the Miss
CSF 2.0 you need to understand that it's
a it's about establishing policies
procedures and processes that are
managing the organizational um risk now
the risks don't have to be just it right
because other risks also affect cyber
security so there could be regulatory
risks right because they need to be
compliant with things like maybe um
socks ssa1 18 PCI ISO you have legal
risk if there was a breach and they were
sued what would happen right and if the
breach was caused by it systems right
the risk the environmental risk
operational requirements there are so
many areas that need to be considered
for cyber security it's not always just
it
and the goal of the Govern function when
you think about this from a compliance
perspective is that it's ensuring that
the cyber security strategy is aligned
with the organization's goals let me
come on camera and say this okay one of
the things I've always told you is that
audit and compliance don't exist just
because right because when you really
really think about it from a practical
perspective audit and compliance are
cost functions so when you think about
when I say cost function I mean the a
company is spending money money on them
they're not necessarily making money on
them so if you think about Amazon right
their revenue function is when they sell
when they make money by selling things
on the website when it comes to audit
and compliance they're actually that's
an expense function so it's a cost for
organizations and that's why some
organizations don't give it enough
funding until they have a problem right
so that's why it's a cost function so
they don't exist just because at the end
of the day audit and compliance has to
be linked back to the organizational
strategies okay audit and compliance has
to be linked back to the organizational
strategy what are we trying to achieve
as an organization what are the
compliance obligations we have because
we're in business as a business right do
we what regulations do we need to comply
with so the the Govern function then is
concerned with making sure that the
cyber security strategy whatever
strategy they select is aligned with the
goals objectives and obligations of the
organization because can just say oh I
want to be um compliant U from a cyber
security perspective we're going to
spend this high amount of money that the
company can't even afford it has to
understand what is reasonable based on
the business we're in based on what the
organizational goals are and based on
what we need to comply with so that's
the main thing about govern function and
then so when you look
here all right so with the Govern
function right here are the categories
and we'll take a look at sub categories
at later on but if you look here I have
on the screen it has the Govern category
and it also has the the function and the
category and so the first thing you see
is govern the acronym that using or the
abbreviation is GV and then you have six
key areas here so the first category is
that the organ the organizational
context like I was saying earlier you
first need to understand what's the
mission of the company what are the um
contractual or compliance requirements
that we need to meet so you need to
First understand what business are we in
what are we trying to achieve here
having that context is what's going to
help the Govern function implement or at
least design an appropriate level of
strategy or the appropriate strategy for
the organization okay then it ALS there
has to be a risk management strategy
again this is also part of the Govern
function so with the risk management
strategy the you have to think about
what are their priorities regarding risk
so if you guys remember from it
fundamentals when we talk about risk
management there are different ways
right that a go a company can choose to
address risk they can accept it they can
reduce it they can avoid it right or
they can transfer it so companies have
to think about what are the appropriate
strategies that we want again based on
our mission based on what we're trying
to achieve based on our outcomes so you
need to understand from for for the
Govern function they need to understand
what that risk man management strategy
is also we have roles responsibilities
and authorities what does that mean so
this category is concerned about who is
responsible for what that's really it at
the end of the day who's going to be
responsible for each aspect of the cyber
security strategy the risk management
strategy right and also not just
responsible who's going to be
accountable because sometimes the people
that are actually performing the work
are not the people that are actually
responsible or accountable to it from a
management level and what are some of
the improvements that will be
established and communicated to the
organization the other part um the
fourth um category is policy right what
is the cyber security policy we've
talked about this when I talked about
the definition policies procedures
processes need to be well documented so
one of the main categories for the
Govern function is that you should have
a cyber security policy in place it
should be communicated it should be
enforced enforced rather and also it
should be updated
as
necessary then the fifth one is
oversight this is and we'll again we'll
take a look at the subcategories in a
bit but oversight is how are we going to
manage and have General oversight around
our cyber security risk management
program because you're not just just
going to create a program and that's it
you need to have activities risk
management activities that are done
periodically to make sure that somebody
is monitoring and has overall oversight
to ensure that whatever strategy is
implemented and in place is continuously
working and being improved as
necessary okay and of course any cyber
security supply risk management
processes as well they need to be
identified established monitored and
improved so these are the six categories
for govern one of the things we'll do at
the end hopefully we'll have time is I'm
actually going to pull up the CSF 2.0
spreadsheet where you'll then see the
subcategories and you'll start to see
how this really links with a lot of what
you've already learned in the it a
program so again the first function here
is govern and it's providing that
overall strategy it's for the risk
management function it's well not that's
not the word it's providing the overall
strategy for the cyber security risk
management as well as the policies and
procedures that need to be implemented
okay so let's take a look at the second
one the second component is identify so
when you think about identify right so
govern is setting up the strategy and
then the second thing is well the
strategy is in place we have everything
working what's the next thing that we
need to do identify is concerned about
establishing right an understanding of
what the risks are to the systems now
you've gone you've gone from being very
high level strategic to being more
detailed let's talk about what these key
risks actually are because we can have
policies and processes in place if we
don't do the work to actually identify
those risks then we wouldn't know how to
manage those risks and with this
identify function there are three key
categories you have Asset Management
risk assessment and Improvement okay so
the first one asset management what are
the assets that you have like first of
all what are all the systems that are in
place servers computers the people
people are part of assets right people
are assets to the organization the
buildings software companies use
hundreds some well some large companies
they may have hundreds of applications
and software that they use in the
organization so asset management and
this could be a total role on its own
asset management is really concerned
about let's make sure we have a full
documentation of all the Assets in the
organization because before you can
actually identify the risks associated
with your organization you first have to
know what those assets are so that then
you can document what's the risk to the
assets which is the second one so once
you first of all identify all your
assets the second one is risk assessment
what are the risk to all the assets
right you need to understand what are
the risks to our Hardware what's the
risk to our software what's the risk to
our applications to our buildings right
to our people to the services that we
provide in the um Community what are
those risks and that's part of that risk
assessment process where companies have
to then make sure they conduct a
detailed risk assessment to understand
their risk posture okay and then the
third one with identification is
ensuring that they are improvements
right to the risk management processes
and procedures so once they've
identified the risk essentially you can
think about this as the risk management
process that says we know what our risks
are how are we going to manage the risks
and there are several steps there which
we cover in our module on risk
management so I'm not going to go back
through all of that but this is
identifying how do we manage and improve
on our risk areas all right so the
second function is identify and the um
acronym for that is ID that's what
you're using so when you see ID in CSF
2.0 is referring to the identify
function so first we have strategy which
is govern second identify you're
identifying your risks by identifying
your assets and risk assessment and then
we are going to talk about the third one
which is protect
so if you guys recall do you guys let me
make this interactive make sure you guys
are still with me do you guys recall the
first layer of Defense who wants to
remind us what's the first layer of
Defense from it fundamentals
course operations the process owners the
process owners okay I see in the chat
process owners so when you think about
protect and I'm trying to link this with
the audit program because I I want you
to understand why what you've learned is
important here as well protect is really
where you are implementing the
safeguards what are the safeguards they
are the controls right so you are
implementing the critical safeguards to
ensure the delivery of this is the
definition from CSF the critical
infrastructure services or the services
that the organization is providing so
one of the main things here is when you
think about protect is who's actually
implementing the guards and the controls
all right so do you guys see now the
next screen let's talk about the protect
function and again the acronym um that
they're using here is PR or the uh that
prot PR for protect and then we have
five categories here the first one is
identity management authentication and
access control now I want you you guys
all have light bulbs going off here is
that correct I hope you do let's see
what is what do you think about when you
think about this first
one when we talk about our it
gc's logical Access Control logical
Access Control right so the again that's
why I wanted to start off with letting
you remember that the protect is this is
where you're implementing the controls
so the first category is around how do
we how how do we manage identity right
um authentication authorization and just
all our logical IAL security and
physical security um controls this has
so this category is saying these are the
things that you need to do to implement
those controls and then the second one
is also awareness and training so if you
guys remember from the program we talk
about policies but if you also remember
we just don't talk about creating
policies we also talk about making sure
that employees are informed of the
policies right that on a periodic basis
employees get the policy to review and
sign off so there has to be awareness
and training you cannot have a GRC
function let me uh come on camera for a
bit here you cannot have a security
function that's sitting up there in
their office right and putting all this
strategy together and all these controls
and the actual people and employees in
the organization don't know anything
about it right if people are not trained
if employees are not trained about
fishing attacks and things like that
that's when they'll get emails and
they'll click on any link so when you're
in a GRC function you you have to always
remember that whatever strategy policies
and procedures you're putting in place
you also need to inform your employees
on a periodic basis so that they are
aware so just some basic security
awareness training on you know first of
all what their rights are as a user how
they log into systems password
management because believe it or not I
think I've told you guys this story we
have sometimes seen employees put their
passwords in the drawer like right there
so that's not very secure right so just
some basic cyber security um tips and
how to avoid
malware well not knowingly usually it's
an email they get that tells them to
click a link right kind of giving them
that awareness about this is what you
should or shouldn't do whenever you get
efficient email okay so that's the
second U category and then the third one
is data security this is also a little
bit linked to logical security but it's
not just about the systems it's about
the data how is the data in the system
protected so how is information in how
how is the data in the organization
protected so for anyone right that's
going into the Privacy space this is a
pretty big one because there are whole
lots of privacy rules around data right
but it's not just privacy so
confidentiality which is linked to
privacy integrity and Avail availability
that's the CIA Triad right so how is
data managed according to that and then
there's platform security so you have
the hardware right and the software and
then this is where you also have to
think about you know where it's are they
using paths for example platform as a
service and things like that how is the
actual platform being protected so
that's where you have for example the
virtual platforms and then technology
infrastructure resilience so this is
about what's the risk strategy around
ensuring that assets continue all the
assets that we identified in the prior
function how are those ass what is the
strategy in place to make sure that
those assets continue to maintain
confidentiality in integrity and
availability and organizational
resilience when you think of the
resiliences is essentially if there were
an attack if something happened um how
will we be able to come back as a
business so think a little bit of that
is the business impact analysis or
Disaster Recovery might be a better
example so how how resilient is our
infrastructure against just any of the
risks that we've identified so to
summarize again when we talk about the
protect function this is about the
implementation of the actual controls
right and the things that would actually
help protect the it systems and the IT
environment
okay then the next one and I know you
guys may have questions so what I'll do
is we're about we'll wrap up this
particular section on the core
components or the core functions and
then I'll allow some questions before we
go into the next one because I can
already feel maybe you're starting to
get some questions so let's talk about
detect so detect detect is when you
think detect I know you're already
thinking detective controls which is
perfect right but detect is um the
function that's essentially making sure
that you have U activities and processes
in place so that you can quickly um
detect if something goes wrong the
earlier you identify a secur security
incident the better so if something
let's say malare was downloaded on
someone's computer today well you want
to find out today you don't want to find
out tomorrow or weeks down the line
where it's already gotten a lot of data
or or done wrecked a lot of Havoc really
on the organizational systems so the the
tect function is about making sure that
there activities in place to identify
the occurrence of a cyber security event
and again I think I gave you guys the
answer earlier this is where you make
sure you have detective controls in
place you don't just have preventive
controls right preventive controls is
more linked with protect but you and
those are to ident to prevent things
from going wrong right but the tech is
we know things can go wrong what we want
to make sure is that whenever something
does go wrong we quickly identify that
situation and we put in place a process
to quickly address it so let's take a
look here at the two categories for
detect so for detect you have again you
want to make sure that you find this
cyber security potential incidents right
and analyze them and there are two key
categories you have continuous
monitoring and adverse event analysis so
continuous monitoring is essentially for
those of you um that might have some
cyber security background or we might
have even talked about this in the it I
think we've talked about in one of the
it um classes but essentially making
sure that there are continuous
monitoring processes in place this is
where you have security loging I think
we mentioned this in logical security
training right where you have security
logging you have alert that are set up
so that when certain thresholds are
crossed or when someone that doesn't
have appropriate access gets into a
system all of those are being monitored
and for those of you that may have some
prior background in sock when I say sock
I mean the cyber security sock those are
the folks when there are incidents they
get more alerts right they get emails
things that going off in the Operation
Center and they know that something's
gone wrong a ticket gets opened so that
that incident is monitored so I want to
pause because I actually mentioned a few
key different things there that I want
you to think back to when you're
reviewing your it audit program when I
talked about continuous monitor we
talked about security monitoring which
is part of logical security and we also
talked about alerts being set up that's
also part of that security monitoring
and logging but then we also talked
about when the alerts go off and their
incidents they are recorded and trapped
to resolution right what part of our
itgc is that let me see if you guys are
following in management from computer
operations computer operations so are
you guys start you I hope I we're still
going to talk about the implications
later but hopefully as I'm talking
you're already seeing the link with some
of the things you've already learned so
now you're just seeing it from this
framework perspective right so that's
continuous monitoring and then the
second one is adverse event analysis so
whenever it's just a fancy word for
incident monitoring is what I'll say so
it just means when something has gone
wrong right right what do we do so
usually when they are large potential
not just large when they are just
potential incidents uh companies usually
have they might call it like a problem
management or Incident Management but
the goal here is saying that you analyze
the event you just don't say oh that's
okay there has to be a process that deta
does a detailed analysis of that event
to determine if it's a real problem or
if it's um a false positive so
continuous monitoring is you just making
sure that you have those logs and alerts
and security monitoring in place but
then the actual analysis and this is
also linked to that Incident Management
that I talked about for computer
operations this is where you are
actually analyzing the event and trying
to determine what to do and before
closing out the event you have to make
sure that you've done a full analysis
and you've determined what approach to
take and whether the issue is resolved
or marked as a false positive the goal
here is making sure that that analysis
takes place in order to make the right
decisions
okay all right so that's the detect
function so let's do a quick summary
right we started with strategy let well
let me see in the chat make sure you
guys are still with me what was the
first one you can put it in the chat
what was the first
function with the
G govern so we had govern right so that
um concerned with the strategy was the
second
one I don't you
identify right you're identifying your
assets risks okay what the third one
protect protect this is where you
actually implement the controls right
and then the fourth one we just talked
about is detect respond detect yeah
detect yes so this is we have detect
which you have your detective control
you have your continuous monitoring and
then making sure you're analyzing
Adverse Events your Incident Management
processes essentially okay good job guys
you guys are here
and then the next one is respond okay
what is respond so respond is it's kind
of you can start seeing where there's a
thread right so at the end we talked
about the impact or the adverse event
analysis so respond is actually where
you're taking action on those security
detected cyber security incidents so I
think I might have actually talked a
little bit about this when I talked
about detect because I so I might have
bloodred the lines for you but with the
framework right the separating the
actual response right so what do you
actually do what are the actions you
take so this particular response
function is supporting the ability to
contain the impact so you guys when I
say contain the impact what are you guys
thinking now hopefully you're thinking
about impact and likelihood right so
that's our risk when you have a risk is
impact times like likelihood right so
when you have the respond function it's
saying how do we analyze this incident
and if it's a real incident right it's a
real issue how do we reduce the impact
right so instead of it affecting all the
5,000 computers in our organization
let's say there was a virus that was
mistakenly downloaded on one um user's
computer how do we quickly contain it so
that it doesn't spread to all the other
computers in the network so that's just
an example of what response you take
right if there was a data breach how do
we stop it so that the data doesn't
continue to flow out to the adverse
party right to the to the thread agent
so let's make sure we have a response
function in place all right so this
itself is actually a function in
organizations right because you have to
plan for your response you have to
communicate with the organization
sometimes you know if you're unlucky and
it's a data Bridge somebody has to
communicate to the public right and then
more importantly what are the mitigation
strategies to make sure that the issue
is contained all right so that's respon
and I've probably talked a little bit
about this so we have respond Incident
Management so I I kind of went a little
bit ahead when we're talking about the
prior detect right but you can see how
detecting flows into actually responding
so with your respond function you have
Incident Management incident analysis
incident response reporting and
communication and incident mitigation
all right so with this again you're
concerned with we've identified issues
how do we respond and address them step
so Incident Management so again this is
the overall when you think about how you
respond to all the incidents that and
how you manage them but part of that is
incident analysis right how do you
conduct the analysis what do you need to
review do you need to bring in forensics
experts to see where it actually all
started from right what do you need to
do and then you actually have to report
so this is what I've always told you so
with audit and compliance you can't get
away with um actually documenting so
it's not just about having meetings and
talking about these things you actually
have to document and report on that
incident response right and make sure
you also communicate so you have to
communicate and you can see here so with
the reporting it's not just the
documentation piece but you also have to
make sure you document and communicate
with agencies so if there's a data
breach you're usually required by law to
report that right so that's why
sometimes you might get a letter in the
mail that says oh your data was recently
part of a data breach blah blah blah so
that's part of making sure you're
communicating the incident right so
making sure that you coordinate all of
that and then the mitigation this is the
very important piece how do we stop the
impact right how do we mitigate this
issue and hopefully make sure that it
doesn't continue in the future so the
respond function has these four
categories and then the last one is
recover okay so recover
means all right we had an incident
we've mitigated we've addressed but
things might have gone wrong right data
is already out there some systems are
already very much compromised so how to
restore capabilities or another good
example is maybe a data center went
offline right how do we restore
capabilities or services that were
impaired one thing I do want you to
realize is that this um detect respond
recover this doesn't have to be
something that necessarily takes weeks
or days this might be something if it's
critical enough that happens within
hours so for example if um a data center
goes down let's say one of the AWS
Amazon um Cloud centers right the data
centers let's say it goes down very
quickly very quickly they probably have
a a failover um process in place right
where they quickly move over to another
um site so their customers are not
impacted or so this might be within
minutes or hours right so it doesn't
because they're separated into different
functions does not mean right that this
takes a length a long period of time
depending on the impact right that's
where so that's where making sure you
identify and understand the risk comes
in depending on the impact they would
just quickly mobilize the whole team to
make sure that services are restored
quickly all right and this is all about
just improving that organizational
resilience again thinking about disaster
recovery and making sure that companies
can get back to servicing their
customers in a timely manner so let's
take a look at the categories
here all right there two categories here
incident recovery plan execution and
incident recovery communication so this
is more around the restoration piece
right so when during the prior phase
where they are responding and they're
getting information together and they
they already say okay this is what we're
going to do so very quickly restoration
activities need to take place to make
sure services are brought back up and of
course then communicated to all the
affected parties so let's um think about
this sometimes I think I can't remember
when this happened but there was a time
where on our course platform right you
guys were like I can't watch the videos
I can't watch the videos something is
wrong so when I checked my email I saw
that the company had sent me an email
when the issue happened saying we notice
that our systems have have gone down
right and so we're trying to resolve
this quickly but you may notice that
you're not able to play videos that is
all part of their incident recovery plan
it's making sure they communicate well
first of all they are communicating with
the stakeholder because I'm a
stakeholder as their customer they are
letting me know there's an issue and
then whenever the issue is fixed I
usually get another email that says this
issue has been resolved and all services
are back up sometimes it takes minutes
sometimes it takes hours and then I
communicate that to you so that's just
just another practical way of seeing
this in in action okay so let's go back
through this summary here I know we
talked a lot there right but I want to
go back through this summary for you to
just um talk about what we talked about
here so there are six main functions
govern identify protect detect respond
and recover so we govern again this has
to do with our overall strategy we have
those categories here identify you want
to make sure you identify your assets
identify the risks which your risk is
assessment together protect is where
you're actually implementing those
controls and the safeguards right so you
have your logical security awareness and
training physical security data security
overall platform security and the making
sure you have resilience um controls in
place to help with your technology um
resilience then you have detect so
detect has to do with making sure you
continuously Monitor and that you are
analyzing Adverse Events respond is how
when something's been detected and done
our analysis how do we actually respond
so you see there's a a process in place
for Incident Management how do you
analyze the incident how do you report
and which is document and communicate
with your key stakeholders and how do
you actually mitigate meaning how do you
address the issue and prevent the issue
from expanding and then the last one is
recover how do you execute that recovery
plan and once everything is back up and
running how do you communicate to your
stakeholders so this is the core guys
this is the core core of CSF 2.0 and one
of the things again I know at the end I
said we'll talk about the implications
for your career but as I was going
through this you guys should already
have been like okay now I see why all
those controls and things that P talks
about in the it audit program right I
see where that's coming from because
again audit is you're not auditing
controls just for the sake of auditing
you are auditing controls because they
are related to the organizational
strategy right the business needs what's
the business trying to achieve what are
the goals what are we trying to do here
from an IT perspective so that's why you
see that several of these functions that
I have on the screen I link to a lot of
the things that you already learned okay
but I also want to mention one thing I
also want to mention one thing CSF is
CSF a prescription or does it prescribe
exactly the way companies need to do
things let me see if you guys were
listening at the beginning is CSF
prescriptive is it telling you this is
exactly what you need to
do no that's good there are guidelines
they are guidelines and that's why you
can see that when I was describing these
functions hold on people are trying to
join so when I'm when I was describing
the functions you could see that I
started blurring the line somewhere
because companies don't need to separate
all their functions into six okay
companies can choose to group this and
say you know what we're just going to
have one one function is going to have
detect respond and recover because you
as we were walking through you you saw
the thread right you saw how everything
was related so what that means is but
from a framework perspective it has to
be very very detailed so that companies
that are not that mature that may not
have that maturity or that understanding
of cyber security so that you're really
just breaking it down into little little
very explanatory pieces for them to say
okay these are all the exact distinct
pieces you must have but as
organizations mature the lines may be
blurred but the key might be even it's
if it's blurred all the act the
categories all the activities are still
taking place because that's what's
important right what's important is not
saying show me how you have everything
separated into six functions no it's
about do you have those controls in
place have you made sure your you're
safeguarding your cyber security assets
what do you have in place so I don't
want you to go out there thinking about
this from a very theoretical perspective
or thinking about it from a textbook
remember I always say I don't want to
give you don't want to give textbook
responses think about it from the
practical application piece how is this
practically implemented in organizations
okay so that brings us to the end of the
core function but before I go on to the
second one which is the CSF
organizational profile let me see if you
guys have any
questions
okay all right so let's go on so the
next one is CSF organizational profiles
right right so this this is our second
component I know we're a little bit over
time well no I said 60 to 90 minutes so
we're still good okay so this is the CSF
organizational profile okay so what's
the CSF organizational profile and this
is just simply the description of the
current and Target cyber security
posture based on the core outcomes that
a company wants so let's just break that
down a little bit simpler there are two
key profiles that a company can choose
to have one is their current profile
that essentially says this is currently
where we are with our cyber security
posture and then a Target profile that
says this is what we want this is where
we want to be this is our desired
outcome for our risk management
objective okay just a very quick note
before we go deeper into this very quick
note there's a concept called Community
profiles and this is where companies
have come together to develop a baseline
profile based on the industry so maybe
retailers might say we're all in the
same retail industry we have similar
risks right so we're going to come up
with a profile that's generic for this
industry and anybody in the retail
industry can use that as a baseline if
they want and I'll show you what an
example of a profile looks like in a bit
but just wanted to mention this here as
well and like I said I'll share links
and the files that related to this
training now how do you create an
organizational profile right because you
can just say current profile or Target
profile but how do you really create
create that profile there are five steps
one you Scope it right so for scoping
you get gather information you create
the profile you analyze any gaps and
then you implement the action plan so
let's take a look at those five
steps so I know there are a lot of words
on the slide but I didn't want to
shorten it too much for you guys but the
first um piece is determining the scope
of the organizational profile but before
we actually talk about that and
organization can have multiple profiles
right depending on the scope they might
want to have a profile for their cyber
security area they might want to have a
profile for the supply chain risks they
can choose to have different profiles
that focus on a different aspect of risk
or a different aspect of the business
but at the end of the day before you
create an organizational profile you
have to understand what's the scope
right what is the scope based on the
assumptions I want to make so if this is
just for one particular part of of the
let's say Asset Management Area your
profile that you build will be all based
on Asset Management now that you've kind
of put your scope together then you'll
say okay what information do I need
right to I have my scope so if you think
about this in audit terms this is also
talking about where you actually start
gathering information What policies are
in place right and you can get
information from lots of places the the
risk profile already created for
Enterprises the requirements the
standards that need need to be followed
so maybe this is based on having to meet
PCI requirements so you'll need all
information required for PCI DSS for
example but the second thing is making
sure you gather the information that you
need the third one is actually then
based on understanding the scope of the
profile you want and the um um the
information you've gathered you actually
document okay these are the outcomes
that I want all right and again if you
are in a particular industry that
already has a community profile you can
leverage that as a starting point
instead of starting from a blank sheet
and then the fourth part is okay so if
there's a gap between my current and
Target profile so I've already
documented what I'm currently doing and
I've documented where I want to be from
a cyber security risk posture
perspective what's that Gap right and
how do I address them so this is where
you start documenting okay these are all
the risks we've identified these are the
issues what's our plan of action how do
we address this the plan of action and
milestone it's called poam is very much
in the federal space so you might not
see that in regular organizations they
might just call it a remediation plan
right but in the NIT CSF 2.0 they are
using poam because that's a federal term
but you might just see this like a
mitigation or remediation plan or
something like that but essentially here
you're analyzing the gaps and then
creating an action plan to fix mitigate
or address those
gaps and then the last one is actually
implementing the plan so now that you
have a plan in place you actually follow
the plan to actually Implement controls
that will address the Gap right and then
all that is um targeted at meeting that
Target profile so again similar to
remediation plans this may have an
overall
deadline so let's look at an example
here and I rush through those
definitions because I know sometimes
they are theoretical I wanted to kind of
get to the actual um def U example here
so on the screen right so this is a
simplified example of this is the
outcome that's desired right they want a
configuration management practices that
are established and applied very
specific so it's about our configur uh
configuration management
practices so what the current profile
says what are they currently doing right
so the configuration of management
policy is there so this document I
believe was created in 2024 by n right
that's when they issued it but you can
see here so it was last updated in 2022
that's well over a year there are
informal processes so you can already
see that this is not very very mature
and so the status here is saying
configuration management is partially
implemented within the organization some
systems don't follow Baseline so they've
done an internal rating saying this is
three out of five again because this is
an outcome that the company is saying
that it's important to them they've
rated it as a priority and then this is
what they're saying their target profile
is right they want configuration
management to be very specific to
actually be used and enforced in the
organization and that any control that
the policy requires change control
processes to be followed so you guys
already know that if any changes need to
be made to the configuration of a um
company they need to follow change
management controls or the change
management process right so maybe in the
current profile they're not doing that
right because it says change control
processes are not consistently followed
so the target is saying this is what we
want and then the procedures which are
more detailed are saying that okay so
each division will have a CH
configuration management plan it's going
to be maintained implemented enforced
the settings will also well and the
settings well let me read that
differently um as well as it maintains
implements and enforces configuration
baselines and settings so it's saying
all the configuration baselines let's
think passwords to make it easy right so
all the password configurations and
settings need to be properly implemented
to be enforced to be documented right
and if there are any changes it needs to
follow our change management process so
you can see that they are at a certain
place and they have a Target so they
need to identify the gap for example
change control processes is not being
followed and here change control
processes are being followed so they
need to identify those gaps and say what
do we actually need to do and Implement
as an organization to make that a
reality so so even though I went through
those five steps I think this might have
even made it clearer I went through
those five steps because that's what we
have in this CSF 2.0 but this is what
the Practical implication is right it's
not about stating the five steps to risk
profile it's about actually being able
to identify where the current what the
current profile is where we're trying to
go with our Target what the Gap is and
how to address them okay so this is an
example and on the screen here so in
order to get to that summary that I just
showed you right CSF has put together
this document so it's all accessible on
this CSF 2.0 site I'll share links to
that but uh and I just copied a
screenshot of just a part of it because
it's a pretty long document but you can
see right included in profile means is
it part of the scope of this particular
profile remember you can have different
profiles depending on scope so you get
to answer all those questions was the
priority was the status and the policies
and the internal practices roles
responsibilities evidence so essentially
all this information that you gather
remember that second step was making
sure you gathered information right for
your current and also for your Target
that's what will help you after you get
and document all this information that's
what's going to help you actually put
together this summary that tells you
what you need to do okay all right so
let me pause there that's it for the CSF
the organizational profile so I shared
it template and an example all right so
let's go through the third section and
then so we've done our Q&A let's go
through the third section and then we'll
wrap up so thank you all for hanging out
with me here today so the third one is
CSF tiar right now CSF tiar like I was
saying earlier is the characterization
of the rigor like let me use simple
terms this is essentially saying how
serious do we want to be about our risk
management practices like do we want to
be tier one tier two tier three or here
for partial risk informed repeatable or
adaptive like organizations do get to
say what level of risk they want to be
in because again when you think about
risk when we talk about risk response
right some companies you can avoid you
can transfer you can accept right you uh
mitigate so there are different ways
companies all are in business for
different things and depending on the
different area right so for different
areas for one area they might say oh
this area is serious enough we want to
make sure that we're are tier three
right or this area is not that critical
but so we just want to be tier two in
this area so the CSF tiers are
essentially just saying what is the
rigor that we want to say we have for
our risk governance and then based on
the tier they've selected that's what
they then use to inform their
organizational profile right so based on
whether they want to be tier one two
three or four when they put their
organizational profile together it'll be
based on that maybe everybody doesn't
want to be adaptive at that very high
level for configuration management maybe
they just want to be risk informed
that's their decision to make of course
that would be based on a risk analysis
of them determining that if any risk in
that area was actualized they'll be fine
with it right so they've already done
that risk analysis but companies do get
to choose that and then again those tiar
can be used to set the tone for
organizational risk management across
all the different areas so again
different parts or different aspects of
an organization they might select
different tier if they want so for
example just a quick explanation partial
is when it's kind of ad hoc maybe they
don't really have a lot of policies or
it's not really followed up on it's we
kind of do it when we need to right U
risk informed there's awareness right so
we know there are risks but we may not
fully have organization wide um risk
management process so maybe within this
department we do something but it might
be different in another department and
we may not all see what each other is
seeing but we all know what the risks
are um repeatable this is where you have
formal processes right so they approved
they reviewed periodically it's
essentially a pretty good process where
it's consistent to a certain level and
you can repeat it and then tier four is
adaptive so this is formal organization
wide approach let's say there's a change
management process a policy that
everybody knows about so we choose that
we want to be adaptive in all areas or
certain areas and that just means we are
very very mature in that specific area
Okay so that's really it for tiers so
the tiers really are how is a tier
selected for the different area and
based on that tier selection the
organizational profile is created which
would be the current and the Target that
would then need to be analyzed for a gap
for The Gap
analysis okay
all right so we're about to wrap up guys
thank you we might be a few minutes over
so please bear with me so again here are
the three components that we discussed
and I mentioned this was the core part
of the training right so you have the
CSF core CSF organizational profiles and
CSF tiers CSF core is the main piece
right so that's where you have those six
functions that we mentioned categories
and subcategories that detail the
outcomes right then you have the actual
profiles that describe the current and
Target postures and then you have the
tears that just say you know what level
how serious do we want to be with our
cyber security risk governance what are
we comfortable with in actuality all
right so that's the summary there so
let's talk about the last section here
and I think this is where you guys would
hopefully get some additional value so
what does this all mean I'm sure if you
guys were on LinkedIn the last few weeks
raise your hands if you're like me
everybody wants to talk about n CSF 2.0
and everybody's running what is it how
does it affect me is that you let me
check the chat chat like what does it
mean hold on let me see the chat K said
yes okay honestly at the end of the day
that's why when I started and I talked
about the
description or the definition it's a
framework okay let me come on camera
here a little
bit it's really a framework that
organizations are using or that
organizations can use to develop their
cyber security risk uh management
strategy and their profile the framework
is intended to help with the design of
the environment so let's talk about how
this might be the imple Implement
implication sorry the implication for
audit and compliance all right so let's
I actually put both on the same slide I
should have separated them but that's
okay if you're in the audit space you
might get to work with companies to
perform a gap assessment between okay
here's your current profile and here's
your target profile I can't remember who
has someone asked the question about
what do I do if I want to develop a
profile for a customer because you're an
auditor right when you've gone through
this you've gone through my it
fundamentals class we've talked a lot
about controls you learned a lot about
controls you learned about the control
considerations why they're implemented
and how they implemented and what that
should have done for you is not just
tell you how to test controls it tells
you the importance of controls and with
reverse engineering it tells you how to
implement controls so let me see in the
chat right can you guys if someone comes
to you and says we're having some issues
around logical security we have
processes that are not really mature or
our access management process is not
really mature what are some of the
things that we can do based on trying to
get to a more mature level do you feel
like you will be able to tell them at
least five to six more really but let's
just go low five to six controls that
they should Implement to help fix that
Gap let me see you in the chat or you
can speak up
do you all get that
question yes and I see a lot of yeses in
the chat and that's exactly what the
implication is because you now know more
what about what CSF is as a the
framework you understand the concept
that the core functions are giving that
ideal right of this is where things
should be but most companies are not
ideal they will have gaps so your
knowledge of an auditor as because I'm
auditing and this is what I'm looking
for it gives you that unique vantage
point on this is what you need to have
to fix the Gap and there are so many
rules that are really around that
remediation management Gap assessment
and your it audit knowledge makes you
the perfect person to be able to say
this is wrong this is how you fix it
right so that's one implication so it
doesn't change much from what you're
actually doing it maybe just changes the
way you talk about it right you're still
performing that same function of
understanding the if you're right I'm
talking from a perspective where you're
being hired as internal audit not
external right so you're being hired as
internal audit to come help them put
things in place so that's what I'm
talking about from that perspective so
your audit knowledge gives you that
Advantage so that's one and then this is
also linked to the other one so the
first one was really more about Gap
assessment and I think I kind of made it
to the same thing but the second one
again you're using that your sub subject
matter knowledge on it controls it
environment you're using that knowledge
to suggest controls that they need to
implement so I think the question I
asked kind of addressed both but again
you're testing against standards but
your knowledge of the framework and how
companies are trying to implement it
gives you that edge on how to help them
so they might even call you and say you
know what I don't even know how to put
my profiles together come do a gap
assessment so they may not call it an
organizational profile because again
it's a framework so an organization
might literally hire Auditors to come do
a gap
assessment what's a gap assessment where
are we and where do we need to be and
then based on the results of that Gap
assessment identify and suggest controls
that need to be implemented to address
those gaps are you guys
following are you guys following do so
do you guys see how what you your role
as an auditor or what you know as an
auditor helps you based on what
companies might be doing and another
thing you need to remember some of the
words we use that are use in CSF may not
be what organizations use so like I said
they may not call it an organizational
profile they might say we just want to
know where we stand we want to do a gap
assessment and I've actually done some I
when I I used to work in Consulting we
did Gap assessments for companies so
think of it as a test so the Gap
assessment is done as a fullblown we
still do the complete audit like we're
doing SSA 18 the difference is that it's
not going to be given to customers it's
a test so that they know where all their
issues are they address those issues
before we then do the full-blown real
audit does do you guys see that example
so that might be even socks socks like a
gap assessment where are we and a lot of
companies uh because socks is for public
publicly traded companies right so if a
company was private and then they're
public they have a period of time before
they need to be compliant with socks so
during that time a lot of them do Gap
assessments right to know okay are we
where we're supposed to be okay if we're
not how do we address it before our real
assessment starts okay so that's just an
example of that implication for audit
for compliance roles think of the three
lines of Defense the compliance function
is essentially working hand inand right
with your first line of defense making
sure you're implementing all those right
controls so here they might be helping
organizations I think this goes to the
question that was asked earlier to
actually develop their organizational
profile they might call it something
else but they are really just trying to
say this the same thing that we were
just talking about Gap assessment but
being done in internally from a
compliance function so remember the
compliance function can or is
responsible for the internal compliance
compliance with different regulations
right and part of what compliance can do
is say let's give an example so maybe
it's a company that's not really mature
and the compliance function is a new one
that's being implemented one of the
things they would then do is use a
framework such as nist to guide how they
structure their compliance activities
let me pause there do you guys
understand what I just said do you guys
get what I just said about compliance
and how you could use a framework so
let's say a framework for maybe a new
company that's not mature or maybe some
a company that wants to just revamp his
compliance function one thing they could
do is say okay we're going to use this
this framework it doesn't mean they're
going to copy it but they're going to
use that framework and consider it as a
way to develop whatever they want to do
for their company they may not use all
the parts but they will just use it to
inform the structure the governance
structure that they put in place let me
see if you guys are listening can you
guys hear me am I still
live loud and clear okay so you guys see
how that imp the implication is right
and then of course they need to work
with stakeholders to implement the
controls to meet the target profiles and
desired outcomes so it's not just about
saying I know what the Gap is or I know
what to implement actually compliance
would work to follow up make sure people
are doing what they're actually supposed
to do to really really move things
across the Finish Line okay so let's
summarize here and then we'll do a final
Q&A before we wrap
up so again as a reminder the CSF is
intended to provide guidance on
practices and standards it's not
prescribing specific outcomes but those
the guide but the fact that it's not
prescribing outcomes I don't want you to
think it makes it less important it's
still important because those guidelines
are important right those guidelines are
key and they can make a difference
between a company knowing what to do and
what not to do because if a company
actually follows a framework such as the
CSF right it can help improve their um
control environment because and with
that improved control environment it
gives them a better chance of meeting
stand um their compliance requirements
with standards do you guys get that so
do you understand that so even though
it's not prescribing outcomes it's
giving proper well I shouldn't use the
word proper it's giving guidance right
on the it environment the controls and
if a control environment is based on the
CSF they've really done their job it can
improve their security posture which
ultimately helps them meet compliance
need so if they've done all they're
supposed to do when they need to perform
an IT audit for whatever systems it
should technically be good and be
effective if they followed the the
standard requirements U well I don't
want to call them requirements the
standard the guidance that was provided
by CSF do you guys understand that
because I want you to understand the
link between CSF the importance and why
companies usually talk about Frameworks
is because it tells them well it doesn't
tell them what to do it tells them what
to consider for implementation that
would overall then give them a better
outcome with their compliance
needs are you guys still there with
me yes okay great so I think that really
is all I had for you today so let's do a
quick review and then we'll do a Q&A at
the end review today you guys learn
about this CSF 2.0 I gave you the
definition um the explanation we went
really detailed into the 2.0 components
which what are the components guys let
me see the
chat what are the three components we
talked
about we just talked about three key
components for this CSF
2.0 core organizational profile and The
Tear all right okay and with core we
have those six functions with profiles
you have the current and Target and then
we have those four tiers great and then
we talked about implications for your it
audit and compliance career you having
this knowledge that I've shared with you
today honestly it just lets you
understand what it's about and then
depending on whether you go into audit
and compliance what you're how you're
working in that organization might be
different what you might be called upon
to do might be different but that's
really it and I think the the question
we got earlier about a practical example
on how you would um respond to a hack or
something based on a framework or
guidelines that kind of gives you that
explanation as well so thank you all for
joining me I did want to make sure I
give you guys this bonus so that you
guys understand how to review and
potentially what's the word I'm looking
for interpret that's the word to review
and interpret the information in the
framework and then also align it with
what you've already learned in the
course so thank you all I see you all in
the chat you guys have a great rest of
the day so thank you everybody for
joining me for the session today if you
have any questions please let me know
thanks guys
