this is why you need robust cyber
security for our smart grids ready to
dive in first up the NIS cyber security
framework developed by the National
Institute of Standards and Technology
it's a go-to guide for assessing and
improving cyber defenses think of it as
your playbook for thwarting cyber
threats next we've got the nerk CIP
standards these focus on the North
American bulk Electric Systems
reliability in other words they're all
about keeping the power flowing smoothly
even when cyber villains strike why are
these Frameworks important they help
utilities and grid operators speak a
Common Language adopt best practices and
build stronger defenses by using these
Frameworks we can boost our resilience
against cyber attacks and ensure our
smart grids keep humming along so
whether you're a tech Enthusiast or just
someone who enjoys uninterrupted power
knowing about these Frameworks is a must
stay Smart Stay secure and keep the
lights on don't forget to like And
subscribe for more Tech insights
