the iot protocol is the networking
language used by the nodes of an iot
system and is critical to the overall
viability of the deployment
the protocol defines the scope format
and complexity of iot solution
Communications and plays a major role in
determining cost and functionality
therefore it is important to choose the
right protocol
there are two main continuums to
consider
power do the sensors need to be in the
field on battery power for days months
or years
how often do they need to report
are disposable devices being considered
or will replaceable or rechargeable
batteries be used
connectivity what range must the
communication cover and how much data
need to be sent per message
while the cellular provider be able to
maintain your connectivity or do you
want to keep your network and the data
running on it
where the demands of iot deployments
fall along these continuities will often
indicate which protocols they should
consider and what costs to expect
the smallest and least demanding iot
setup suitable for a connected home or
office can operate on a common Wi-Fi
network with all components continuously
powered
other options for proximity connectivity
are zigbee Z-Wave and Bluetooth
each technology has its advantages and
disadvantages in terms of power range
and cost for larger areas like Farms
campuses or cities where small amounts
of data transfer are needed Standalone
low power wide area networks will pawns
are the perfect answered lower Awan and
sigfox are two of the most popular Pawns
cellular protocols like nbiot or cadm
may seem increasingly practical when
talking about coverage areas and across
borders
cellular iot protocols provide a way to
leverage iot data on a regional National
or even transcontinental scale without
the need for pre-established gateways to
create coverage
instead the provider's already existing
base stations will transmit iot data
this also means that your iot will have
the same blind spots as cellular
networks and if the network connection
is interrupted due to maintenance
subscription restrictions emergencies or
other reasons your iot will also crash
however ease of deployment and coverage
often outweighs the costs and
limitations of relying on cellular
providers
after watching this video if you have
any questions please leave them in the
comment Zone and we will try our best to
answer them
