hello there welcome to this video on
using the IOT communication protocols in
this video we're gonna see an IOT device
communication scenario we also gonna see
how an IOT microchip should look like
and what are its characteristics we're
gonna see one of the protocols they use
for general-purpose communication we
will also emphasize on the protocols
suitable for IOT devices alright let's
get started now the first thing we want
established is the edge devices now edge
devices are basically your IOT endpoints
now these could be your IOT devices your
sensors your development boards and so
on and on a large perspective these
devices are categorized into two large
categories one is the consumer IOT
devices and the other one is the
embedded IOT devices of course there
could be other categories as well now
the consumer IOT devices are basically
your nest thermostats your home
automation IOT devices your smart shirts
your smart utilities all of these will
come under consumer IOT devices
the Embera dietary devices are the ones
which are living deep inside machines
which live on independent sensors and in
other use cases like in the shell IOT in
smart manufacturing and so on all right
now we know what is an edge device and
two different categories now the whole
point of an IOT device is that it should
establish communication to the Internet
and before the device establishes a
connection to the Internet it first
talks to a local area network so those
are your lands bands using wired or
wireless like Bluetooth Wi-Fi or you
could also use a powerline so depending
on your scenario your use case you can
use different methods to communicate to
a local area network so this will
essentially become somewhat of a gateway
to talk to the world wide web or the
Internet so from that
point you communicate to the Internet so
on the internet so you're either
communicating to an Internet of Things
platform like for example thing works
periods iBM has one cisco has one many
of them have a iot platform today or you
are communicating to an application
built specifically for your set of
devices or your device could be
communicating to other cloud services ok
now once your devices are connected to
the Internet for whatever reason and to
whatever platform then there's a set of
activities which go on the first is you
acquire the data you derive value from
the data and you enable the end-users to
take some action so finally on this side
it is used at the end user area so who
are you end users so it could be a
company which wants to derive an
analytics which wants to take decisions
which wants to automate things which
wants to make certain processes smart
and efficient it could be end users like
you and me using a phone application to
switch on and switch off your devices at
home or it crawls would be other sensors
and machines using this information now
let's zoom on the edge device and the
local network area so next device could
directly connect to the internet after a
set of ISB layers or it could first
communicate to a gateway and then the
Gateway can communicate to the internet
or different gateways can communicate to
a local cloud or an intra cloud and this
cloud can actually communicate to your
out your platform living on internet or
any other service living on the Internet
so the multiple ways how your s devices
could land up communicating within
themselves and with the internet now
let's look at the characteristics of a
microchip which could be used to power
an IOT device the first thing is the
power so it should be consuming low
power as much as possible because these
microchips will be living in devices
which will be mostly in remote locations
or as a part of
machine or as a part of a sensor so in
most times conventional way of powering
this device is not possible so you could
be relying on batteries and hence you
should be using low-power it should be
low-cost because the application is wide
and heavy so you could be needing plenty
of these to actually make sense of the
solution and it should have a good range
so that it can communicate with other
devices or to a gateway or to a router a
couple of offerings today in the market
are by admin by armed by intent of
course there are other plays as well
these are some of the top ones so Intel
has chips like Adam quark arm has a
complete cortex-m series and that will
has its own set of microchips now these
are the hardware players companies like
microchip they use an ARM Cortex chip
and they add the software layer on top
of it another player in the market is
called particle particle also uses the
ARM Cortex chip and it has its own IOT
platform which the chip is automatically
programmed to hook up to so the whole
plumbing is solved by particles so it's
very easy for the develop to develop and
I have the application and to provision
it in a relatively short amount of time
of course there is a cost factor to it
last but not the least you have the
development platforms like Arduino and
Raspberry Pi which allow you to learn
IOT and of course you can also use these
development platforms in some
applications but most likely not in
production for consumer use development
platforms are very friendly they have
the microchips and they have the
software and they have other protocols
built in it they make it easy for you to
communicate with them and make it easy
for you to power them so you can power
them with USB another
plenty of features which a development
board should have now let's take a look
at the IOT device communication
protocols in other words this is the
software part of the equation
protocols currently available today are
written for general purpose devices
they're not written for devices with
constraints like the IOT devices so
naturally they use more power they send
more data in the same sample because the
header repeats in every transfer and
other overheads it takes more time to
send the data because you tend to use a
lot of layers of software and naturally
it uses more RAM and ROM space now a
typical protocol on IOT space should use
minimum power it should send less data
for the same sample so it should manage
its header space nicely then it should
also reduce the overhead it should take
less time to send data it should manage
its sleeping time nicely so that they
can consume the power it should have
very less lightweight layers of software
which is essential for the device and of
course it should need less RAM and ROM
space because of the space constraints
let's take a side-by-side look of
protocols for general purpose in IOT
specific scenarios in the internet and
network layer we could switch to 6lowpan
which is basically a low-power wireless
personal area network which understands
ipv6 we could switch to UDP which has
much less low overhead compared to TCP
on the web transfer layer we could use
co-op which works on top of UDP and has
much less overhead compared to HTTP on
the application layer we could use
existing technologies like REST API x'
JSON objects and so on let's take a look
at some existing technologies which can
be used in high addition areas in the
network layer you have ZigBee which has
been there for a while it's used for
local area network communication and
ZigBee IP understands ipv6 z-wave is
similar to ZigBee and it is somewhat
proprietary in nature coming to the web
and application layer we have MQTT which
uses a publish and subscribe model it is
very lightweight and can be used for IOT
applications you have WebSocket which is
developed by the
my consortium it has a full duplex open
socket communication and it saw as much
of the complexity around client-server
communication
you also have XMPP which specializes in
instant chat peer-to-peer communication
one-to-many communication and it can be
extended for other scenarios as well of
course this is not a comprehensive list
and there are many other technologies
out there which can be used for high
edition hires in the next video we're
gonna be testing or do we know uno
Ethernet board and nor MCU thank you
