data warehousing is one of the hottest
topics both in business and in data
science but if you're new to the field
you're probably wondering what a data
warehouse is why we need it and how it
works
don't worry because in four minutes
you'll know the answers to all these
questions alright first let's start with
the definition what is the meaning of
the phrase single source of truth in
Information Systems Theory the single
source of truth is the practice of
structuring all the best quality data in
one place let's look at a very simple
example surely it has happened to you to
work on a file and to create many
different versions of it how do you name
such a file well once you are done you
often place the word final at the end
this results in having a bunch of files
with extensions final final final final
final final or my favorite really final
final if this is you you are not alone
it seems that even corporations never
know where the most recent or most
appropriate file is but what if you knew
that there is one single place where you
would always have the single source of
information that would be quite helpful
wouldn't it well a data warehouse exists
to fill that need so what is a data
warehouse exactly it is the place where
companies store their valuable data
assets including customer data sales
data employee data and so on in short a
data warehouse is the de-facto single
source of data truth for an organization
it is usually created and used primarily
for data reporting and analysis purposes
there are several defining features of a
data warehouse it is subject oriented
integrated time variant non-volatile
summarized let's quickly go through
these one-by-one
subject oriented means that the
information in the data warehouse
revolves around some subject therefore
it does not contain all company data
ever but only the subject matters of
interest for instance data on your
competitors need not appear in a data
warehouse however your own sales data
will most certainly be there
integrated corresponds to the example
from the beginning of the video each
database or each team or even each
person has their own preferences when it
comes to naming conventions that is why
common standards are developed to make
sure that the data warehouse picks the
best quality data from everywhere this
relates to master data governance but
that is a topic for another time time
variant relates to the fact that a data
warehouse contains historical data too
as said before we mainly use a data
warehouse for analysis and reporting
which implies we need to know what
happened five or ten years ago
non-volatile implies that the data only
flows in the data warehouse as is once
there it cannot be changed or deleted
summarized once again touches upon the
fact that the data is used for data
analytics often it is aggregated or
segmented in some ways in order to
facilitate analysis and reporting all
right so that's what a data warehouse is
a very well structured and non-volatile
de facto single source of truth for a
company if you enjoyed this video don't
forget to hit the like button and share
it with your friends and if you'd like
to become an expert in all things data
science subscribe to our Channel
thanks for watching and good luck
