if you don't like slow tech but still
want super fast AI then npus are your
new best friends so what's an npu npu
stands for neural Processing Unit think
of it as a tiny brain inside your device
designed to handle artificial
intelligence tasks unlike regular
processors npus are super fast at
learning and recognizing patterns
they're the secret sauce behind features
like face recognition Voice assistance
and real-time language translation by
offloading AI tasks to the npu your
device runs smoother and saves battery
life imagine playing Minecraft and your
character can predict your next move
that's how cool npus are they make
everything quicker and smarter so next
time your phone recognizes you or
understands your voice give a nod to the
npu it's the future of AI right in your
pocket thanks for watching don't forget
to like And subscribe for more Tech
tidbits
