I just watched a video of a wedding
photographer explaining how these SD
card holders corrupted all of her
wedding photos so let's talk about how
to safely store all the photos that you
shoot now to be clear it wasn't exactly
this case these cases that I'm using are
actually rubber lined they come with
different inserts so you can swap them
out like right now I've got CF Express B
I've got SD cards and micro SD cards and
I've got a few of them depending on what
I've shot like these ones I think have
some data on them still that I haven't
erased these guys should be fresh but
you you might realize I don't actually
have a lot of memory cards I've got two
of these cases maybe you knowbe maybe a
dozen two dozen memory cards at most but
the one that she was talking about in
her video was actually one of these
really big ones that holds like 50 SD
cards and it's foam lined and it has a
cover and the problem that she had was
that when you put the SD cards in and
out of to the foam because of the
material that the foam is made of it
would cause a static discharge to build
up and then it would zap the memory
cards and she would lose all of her data
now this actually happened to me many
years ago when I was still just a single
memory card shooter and at the time I
was using I was using Lexar memory cards
in fact I think this was one of the ones
that I was using that that got corrupted
which is one of the reasons why I don't
really use Lexar memory cards anymore
nothing particularly bad about them but
I just it gives me anxiety thinking
about me losing my data but another
thing she said in the video was that she
won't erase the data on her SD cards
until she's fully edited and delivered a
project now I know there are
photographers out there who do this who
literally have 30 40 50 memory cards
will double shoot meaning you know if
you have a camera that has two SD card
slots you're using that as your for of
backup but but the problem is that SD
cards aren't really a longterm storage
solution so I'm going to grab a a pen
and paper
here so we've got pen and paper and a
ton of hard drives and and I'm going to
illustrate what my data storage solution
is and what I think the best option for
you is if you're looking to offload your
cards but have a backup and then have an
extra backup because we all need
redundancies in case things
fail step one when I bring my camera
home I will take the SD card one of the
SD cards out of my camera and load that
onto either a solid state drive that is
attached externally or in my case I have
an internal solid state drive that is a
4 GB drive you can kind of think of it
as my everyday working drive but the
other SD card stays into my camera until
that process until all of those photos
are
transferred step two for me is is an
automatic process so as much as possible
I don't want to be copying and pasting
things manually I want processes to run
in the background so what I have is I
have a very large regular hard drive so
a spinning disc drive that I have vhm
which is like a backup software utility
that will run daily backups of that
solid state drive so the the hard drive
itself is 16 terabytes whereas the solid
state drive is 4 TBT and what that
allows me to do is have backuped like
versioned backups of my solid state
drive so one problem you can encounter
is is data corruption so you need
backups that you can go back and grab
things but also if you accidentally
delete something and you don't realize
you delete something the versioned
backups that are on that daily backup
hard drive means I can go back for a
week or 2 weeks or however long and and
recover things in case I accidentally
delete something that I didn't mean to
delete step three this is where it gets
complicated might need a separate color
for this hold
on step three is where it gets
interesting it's also automated but I
have cloud backup of both of these
drives I know I used red for a cloud it
doesn't make sense but I actually use a
service that's called back Blaze and I
and I think it's one flat I can't
remember exactly how much it is but it's
like $10 or $15 a month editor Anthony
here it is $9 a month and I actually
found out I have a referral link so not
not affiliated in any way but if you use
it you'll get the first month for free
so I'll put that down in the description
for you to check
out it's basically like having another
subscription service but what allows you
to do is automatically back up any hard
drives that are directly attached to
your computer so we would call that
direct attached storage as opposed to
NAS which is network attached storage
which we'll get there we'll get there in
just a second actually hold on my uh my
doorbell just rang let me uh let me grab
[Music]
it I uh I actually don't know what's in
this package but uh we're about to find
out I uh oh okay we got uh this is
exciting it's photography
related
nope so that's some uh K KN andf ND
filters cuz there's a a solar eclipse
coming up in uh solar eclipse lunar
eclipse there's a a solar eclipse and
we're going to maybe capture some of it
maybe we'll see ND 10 m 10 million what
is that ND 100,000 so like basically the
darkest ND filter you've ever seen in
your life oh my gosh it is so dark okay
for reference I I'm pointing it at my
light and no light is coming through ND
100,000 that is insane play with these
later okay where were we so at this
point we have one solid state drive that
we're editing off of that is a you know
a fast solid state drive so that
Lightroom runs fast that is being backed
up to a physical hard drive which is
slower bigger less expensive on a per
terabyte or per gigabyte basis and then
both of these are being backed up to an
offline backup solution so that's a 1 2
3 backup if that's all you had you would
be perfect but because I have a lot of
data I have a lot of video files I have
a lot of photo files sometimes these run
out so sometimes I have multiple ssds
kind of at this 0.1 position and that is
where all of these come in so these are
various Brands I have some of these
Western Digital ones which people tend
to not like but the Samsung ones the t7
drives in the ruggedized form and the
more the thinner aluminum form these are
what I put working projects on so if I
have a big video project that's maybe
bigger than 4 GB or maybe I don't want
it filling up my main Drive these I will
use just for a project so a wedding a
big YouTube thing maybe I have multiple
photos that I I want to organize but
this is not long-term storage these I
will still back up to something else
which if I need more storage I will back
up to my network storage and this is
where everyone loses their mind because
this is where it it all becomes pretty
complicated where's my marker so how do
I how do I say this this is like step
three so that the cloud cloud is step
three okay I think I think this makes
sense but this is effectively where my
Nas lives so when this gets full the
Overflow makes it into here but the
problem that I mentioned is that back
Blaze only backs up local storage unless
changing colors to different marker
unless you get back Blaze B2 which is
like their their business their
Enterprise solution that unfortunately
does charge you a per gigabyte fee so in
my case because I have a lot of video
files that wouldn't fit on a single hard
drive I have the nas which is set up in
raid so there's redundancy there in
terms of a hard drive failure but then
this is backed up to back blade so in
this case I have two copies I don't have
three copies anything that goes onto my
Nas is stuff that I probably don't need
anymore so archived projects photos that
are older than 3 years old University
projects all that is going to be on my
Nas so my recommendation if you're
looking for a simple stupid solution is
to just implement the top half of this
where either you have a solid state
drive for all your working stuff and
then another solid state drive so if you
wanted to you could have like a like an
offline disconnected copy of the the
same thing but then have a virtual
off-site third copy in the cloud
honestly back Blaze not sponsored not
affiliated with them in any way one of
my old co-workers told me about it he
was using it for all his like his photos
and his videos and honestly it is it is
a solution that if you don't want to buy
hundreds and hundreds of of SD cards and
have one of these massive like SD cards
are expensive most people don't realize
that on a per gigabyte basis which is
the number you should be comparing your
storage solutions by is that SD cards
especially the super fast ones or the CF
Express cards like the one I showed you
earlier like this prograde one which is
absolutely awesome super fast but also
this is like a $1,000 $1,200 memory card
and you don't want to be using these as
long-term storage you're going to be
much better off you know for the same
capacity actually for more capacity
buying one of these Samsung drives and
being able to store or multiple projects
on it and probably have this one be
faster well maybe not faster not faster
than the CF Express card but probably a
little bit more reliable since it's got
that waterproofing ruggedized look you
can take this throw this on your
shelf and not worry about it but I'll
link to all that stuff to the memory
cards to the drives that I use to the
nas stuff that I recommend down in the
description if you found any of this
helpful and you'd like me to go further
into memory cards and hard drives and
all that sort of stuff for storing your
phone and your video files let me know
down in the comments if you like this
video give it a thumbs up and until the
next one go shoot
photos
