this video is sponsored by AVG there are
five things that make a good cloud
storage service and so in this video I'm
going to run you through what those five
are and how each of these cloud storage
providers stack up they're some of the
most popular names you've probably heard
of as well as some of the most popular
Alternatives there have been a few
changes recently so this video should
provide you with an up-to-date guide if
you're looking for somewhere that is
best to store your data now links will
be down below this video for each of
them some of them have some pretty
incredible discounts on them which we'll
talk about more in a moment so let's
start off with something that everybody
starts with and that is pricing so from
cheapest to most expensive and for those
that you do pay monthly I'm going to
give you the full Year's cost just so we
can compare here and I'm going to throw
them up on the screen so we can see for
yourself but I just want to point out
some differences here now firstly most
of the prices there are for two
terabytes of storage however iDrive
gives you five terabytes and you also
have a special first year offer at just
7.95 for the whole year which you can
get using the link down below this video
but after that first year it then
increases to the still the lowest price
of all the others but I just wanted to
show that comparison without the
discounted pricing for now Microsoft
OneDrive the most they offer is just one
terabyte of data pcloud has a 10
discount which I'll link again down
below but other than that purely based
on pricing I drive absolutely smashed it
out the park there so if you are purely
looking at pricing then I drive kind of
wins at this stage sync also provides a
very affordable service in comparison
with its other features which we'll talk
about in a moment and the big players
like Google Apple Dropbox they all sit
at the very top of that price point now
if you do have a lot of data and perhaps
your after unlimited storage then you
don't have any options as a consumer but
if you upgrade to some of the business
tiers unlimited storage does actually
become an option again I'm going to put
these prices up on the screen now but
still the pricing isn't that bad 30
bucks a month at best and 100 bucks a
month at worst for completely unlimited
storage which if you hold a you know a
lot of data still isn't that bad but
whilst pricing is one thing that most
people focus in on first there are some
key differences that you need to be
aware of when choosing a service so in
terms of features all of these services
will work on pretty much every device
you've got Apple Windows iPhone and
Android with one exception of course
with iCloud whilst you can use it on
Windows and Android devices I'd only
really recommend iCloud if you're an
Apple user with you know an iPhone a Mac
and and or an iPad just because you get
that full Apple experience by doing so
it's kind of like running Windows on a
Mac it does kind of work but it's just
it's just not designed to do that so if
you do have a mixture of devices one of
the other services may be better suited
now again they all have fairly similar
features and similar desktop functions
here you can share files and folders
some of them even look similar but
pretty much all of these once installed
will just show themselves as an extra
folder on your computer which you can
use to move things in and out just like
you know any other folder does there is
one specific feature that I wanted to
call out here though which to most
people can make a significant difference
to how they use the service and that's a
feature called Online files now Online
files means you can still access all
your files and folders directly from
your computer's desktop you don't
actually download the file until you
either open the file or you choose to
download it typically by like right
clicking the file and choosing to
download now most of the ones I've
tested so far have this feature iDrive
doesn't have that feature sync does have
the feature but you have to download the
sync cloud files beta clients which
isn't really advertised anywhere and has
been in beta for pretty much a year I
think but that does work well once you
actually get there so what I want to do
here is to highlight some limitations
here which may take you one step closer
again to deciding which one is the best
for you now the first limitation is
around the maximum file sizes again I'm
going to show them on the screen here
from smallest to largest but those sizes
will limit the size of individual files
that you can upload now reading through
these limitations for most people the
only one you might want to be careful
with here is iDrive and maybe iCloud
being at 50 gig but with that said I did
upload some larger files to r-drive and
iCloud and I didn't have any issues so
it looks only to be a recommended limit
rather than a hard stop now I know that
10 gig files are kind of few and far
between unless you like know that you're
creating those large types of files for
example some of the video files are
uploaded from my editor can be up to 100
Gig in size but for most people all
those limits aren't going to cause you a
problem at all a quick shout out once
again to AVG for sponsoring this video
AVG offers protection for Macs and PCs
across business and personal computers I
actually remember using AVG Internet
Security way back in the 90s on my dad's
computer so they have Decades of
experience with a product that's always
been excellent at blocking bad things
from getting onto your machine to get up
to 60 off for the first year click on
the link down below and check out their
multi award-winning security and
features such as enhanced
anti-ransomware and additional
protection on accessing your webcam to a
firewall that blocks anything suspicious
and with their 4.3 star rating on
trustpilot you can be sure that you're
in safe hands so thank you once again to
AVG for sponsoring this video and for
sporting a small Creator such as myself
now the next potential limitation is how
fast each of these services are in terms
of uploads and download speeds so I'm
going to throw the results up on the
screen once again rather than wasting
your time explaining each one but all of
these tests were done when uploading a
10 gig file to each service and then
downloading that 10 gig file back again
and I did this multiple times and at
different times of the day to check if
it was consistent now most of them are
pretty close some of them really not
sync.com shockingly slow I drive also
not great but then at seven bucks a year
I kind of expect that OneDrive was also
pretty slow to download compared to the
others Dropbox was actually the fastest
to download and then Google Drive was
the fastest to upload for me number
three or maybe four wheel now on the
five things every good cloud service
needs is to protect your data this is
typically by what they call data
retention which is how long they'll
store old copies of your data sometimes
it's how many versions of a file they'll
store now what none of these services do
for you is back up your data they do
replicate your data to like multiple
locations so there's no issues of losing
your data if one of their locations gets
hit by like a fault or a natural
disaster but generally speaking it's
always best to use a different service
to actually backup your data because
what's the point of say Microsoft
backing out your data and then Microsoft
stuff as an outage or if you delete
something for example and you don't
realize it until a few months later it's
too late to recover it but data
retention is some something that some of
these cloud services do offer which
means you have the ability to roll back
and recover data to a certain point now
I would argue here that sync.com
actually has the best standard
protection at 180 days whereas you need
to upgrade to Dropbox Pros or business
level to get that same protection and of
course at a higher cost pcloud also
offers the option to upgrade to one year
of retention which is actually pretty
good but does then make it very
expensive in comparison to the others so
sync is now one of the cheapest and has
some of the best retention but some of
the slower speeds damn it's really not
making my job here that easy but that
isn't all because the next thing you
should be concerned about is the
security of your data normally it's the
last thing people worry about but I
think it is still very important to
cover in one of these videos now firstly
the good news here is that all of the
services support two-factor
authentication as a bit of a standard
but I want to highlight a few here so
Google Drive Dropbox OneDrive and as of
January 2023 Apple's own iCloud all
support the use of one of these UB Keys
which is as far as I'm concerned one of
the best ways to protect your count from
being hacked so without having this
physical key for example you can't
access your data so it's very very
difficult for someone to get into your
account without your key now I'm going
to leave a link down below to buy these
because not many people seem to know
about them still but secondly is a
phrase known as zero knowledge
encryption now this means that even if
someone did get into your account and
find your data they couldn't access it
or do anything with it because they
don't have the decryption Keys now
unfortunately the likes of Google Drive
Dropbox OneDrive and until recently
Apple they aren't zero knowledge now the
companies themselves hold the keys to
your data so if someone does get in they
can browse your data and still take what
they want so if you want to secure your
data you want to use a zero knowledge
service now of the list we're looking at
that means iDrive sync and apple
actually surprisingly but with apple
it's not very obvious we actually have
to go into the settings menu and enable
it on one device for it to kind of roll
it out to all your devices but I'll link
to a video from a friend of mine Josh
from All Things secured I'll pop it up
here on how to do that now pcloud is
also zero knowledge but you do have k
for their add-on which is called pcloud
crypto which is an awfully named product
it sounds like something to do with
Bitcoin when it's completely not and
that is also a 50 a year add-on making
it the most expensive option of all the
options we're looking at now now the
last thing I think is important when it
comes to Security is to see if any
breaches have recently happened and so
as far as major breaches go only Dropbox
has had a recent one in November of 2022
where names and addresses for employees
customers leads and vendors were
potentially stolen but no customer data
was compromised but honestly with that
said even though none of the other
services had any major breaches we all
know that accounts get hacked like daily
there was the massive iCloud leak of you
know celebrity photos a few years ago a
seemingly endless list of people who get
there Google and Microsoft accounts
compromised but this doesn't typically
happen because the service itself has a
poor implementation of security and
actually comes down to how we as users
of those Services poorly Implement our
own security so if you are honestly
concerned about the security of your own
data I.E not wanting anyone else to get
their hands on it then I would recommend
looking for one of these zero knowledge
encryption services so after taking all
of this information into account where
would I place my recommendations well I
drive is cheap and secure but slow but
at seven bucks for like the first year
you can't really complain there now
sync.com feels like it's the best
all-rounder it just sucks for me that
it's so slow to upload and download in
my most recent tests but I would
recommend you give it a try first like
maybe you can find your speed results
are a lot different to mine and you can
always just ask for refund if it doesn't
work well for you either otherwise you
can't actually go wrong with sticking
within your own ecosystem so Apple
Microsoft or Google if you're already
with them given that you get all the
extras like Microsoft desktop apps or
the Google Docs just make sure that you
secure your accounts properly with the
UB key now the good news is that I
wouldn't say any of these services are
bad Services it's not like my password
manager review where I found some pretty
significant issues with some of them but
until next time
[Music]
