at first glance Microsoft OneDrive might
be a bit overwhelming or even confusing
to use but if you know the basics and
how to use onedrive's functionalities
properly it's actually quite simple and
straightforward so let me show you what
you need to know when setting up or
using OneDrive to have the best
experience regardless if you're using it
by the browser or your file explorer
put simply OneDrive is Microsoft's cloud
storage service that stores and connects
all your files you can create store
manage edit share backup restore or
collaborate with others via OneDrive and
across multiple devices it's not only
available for when you're online but it
even lets you use your files in offline
mode
one drive is included in all Microsoft
365 Office 365 and SharePoint plans and
also can be purchased separately most of
you will have it available via your 365
subscription for personal use or at work
one more free way to make use of
OneDrive is by creating an Outlook email
address this just takes a few steps and
will grant you five gigabytes of free
storage if you're using Windows 10 or 11
OneDrive will already be pre-installed
on your computer and you can make use of
it right away if not you can download it
from this website either for your
computer or your Mac I leave the link to
this website and the one where you can
create your free outline email address
in the description just as the link to
my free newsletter in which I share so
many more insights beyond the ones in my
YouTube videos so make sure to subscribe
now and just as with any other Microsoft
app OneDrive is also available for
mobile both for Apple and Android
devices you can find it either in the
app or the Play Store by searching for
OneDrive having installed the app you
will be able to view edit or share your
files not only on your desktop but also
when being on the go
back to your desktop computer where you
will see a little Cloud icon in your
taskbar which symbolizes OneDrive
availability clicking on the icon you
will see a list of documents that have
been uploaded or synchronized most
recently on top it will tell you if your
OneDrive is currently up to date if it's
processing changes or if there's a sync
issue by clicking on the little gear
icon on top right you will get to the
OneDrive settings which I will cover
later in the video more important for
now are the three big buttons at the
bottom that let you open the OneDrive
folder on your computer view it online
in the browser or access a recycle bin
by the browser as well let's first look
at the browser version of OneDrive that
lists all of your files and folders
underneath each other by default you can
change this view by clicking on the top
left and choose a compact list or tiles
on the left side you can find the
navigation bar that lets you access all
of your files the ones recently created
edited or uploaded your photos documents
or files you have shared with other
people and the recycle bin you can
access the bin either like we just did
or directly via the third button in your
OneDrive overview when clicking on the
cloud icon on your taskbar the browser
view is very similar to the one you can
access via your file explorer either by
clicking on open folder via the cloud
symbol or just by navigating to your
OneDrive folder in your file explorer
having clicked on it it will appear
besides all the other standard folders
in your file explorer and show the same
files and folders that you have seen in
the browser view
staying with the file explorer let's see
how you can edit and work with files and
all this is no magic and really not very
different from just working on your
local drive but there are some specifics
you need to know if you want to create a
new file just open for example a new
word document and make sure to save it
in your OneDrive deleting something from
your OneDrive is similarly simple and
can be done by pressing the delete
button or by right clicking and deleting
for personal OneDrive accounts whatever
has been deleted will be kept in your
recycle bin for 30 days in case you
would like to restore a document
thereafter it will be cleared to access
the recycle bin you need to go to your
browser OneDrive view ideally via the
app on your taskbar one of the best
features of OneDrive at least in my
opinion is the ability to view each
document's history and even have the
ability to restore older versions of
that document you just need to do a
right click on any document with a
history so if for example a word
PowerPoint or an Excel file and click
view history this will open a new window
with the files complete version history
from the date of creation you will see a
list of automatic backups that OneDrive
did in the background or whenever the
document was closed and saved as well as
the person that modified the documents
how long ago and what size the document
had at that point in time by clicking on
the three little dots that appear when
hovering above a specific version you
can either restore or download this
version of the document but you cannot
restore an older version whilst the
current one is open but you can always
download an earlier version which is
great to for example compare a current
one with what has changed from two days
ago
now you might have seen and wondered
already about the different icons that
are shown in the status column which is
unique to OneDrive accessed via the file
explorer those symbols tell you the sync
status of the respective OneDrive files
in total there are more than 20
different symbols but I bet in 90 of the
cases you will only need the following
ones the solid green circle with the
check mark means this document is always
synchronized to your device this means
it takes up space on your device but
will also be there even if you're
offline the light green tick icon means
that this file used to be an online only
file that has been downloaded to your
device having become a locally available
file again both when you are being
online or offline the blue cloud icon
means that this file or folder is only
available online so it does not take up
space on your computer but can also only
be accessed if you are connected to the
internet whenever you see a people Icon
it means that this file or folder has
been shared with other people I will
cover a few more sharing settings in
just a bit and another important symbol
is the blue Sync icon which means that
this file of folder is currently being
synced to the cloud you can also hover
with your mouse above the respective
icon and it tells you what it means but
those icons cannot only be seen next to
your files and folders but also your
OneDrive app icon in your taskbar might
show one of those icons from time to
time mostly it will be this one meaning
that OneDrive is currently being synced
to the cloud or this one which means
that there is a sync issue usually you
can just click on the app symbol so it
guides you through the bug fix but if
you would like to learn more about
fixing sync or other issues with
OneDrive let me know in the comments
down below as well as make sure to hit
the like button and subscribe to the
channel if you found the video helpful
so far
sharing is another great OneDrive
feature that allows you to collaborate
with others to share a file or folder
just do a right click and go to share
within the context menu just as the
other five or so features below this is
only available when working with
OneDrive documents having clicked share
this new window will pop up and lets you
specify the sharing options on top you
can edit the overall permissions and
share the file or follow with anyone or
just with specific people at the bottom
you can also choose if that person has
full access and editor permission or if
they should just be able to view the
content but cannot make any changes in
addition you can set an expiration date
on which the permissions would expire
for example if someone would just need
to have access for two days before
sending type in the email address of the
person you would like to share the file
as well as an optional message that they
will receive together with the sharing
notification via email alternatively you
could just copy the link to the filer
folder and share it for example directly
via WhatsApp or teams to change share
settings you need to go via the OneDrive
browser version that you can access by
right clicking on the file or folder and
choosing to view it online now click on
shared next to the document you would
like to manage access for and adjust the
sharing settings by either removing
individual people or changing their
permissions
one other really great and maybe even
unique feature about OneDrive is the
availability of a personal Vault this is
a special folder that you can set up
only by having access via two-factor
authentication so to access the
documents within the personal Vault you
would first need to log into your
computer or OneDrive and second complete
the two-factor authentication with your
phone or email to get inside your wallet
this extra layer of security is great if
you have documents like scans of your ID
passport or driver's license that you
would like to store in a more secure
place
now going back to the OneDrive settings
that you can access via the cloud icon
on your taskbar there are some important
things you need to be aware of in
general I would recommend going through
all of the different settings once so
you know what's available and what can
be changed one of the most important
settings in my opinion is the choice of
folders that you would like to
synchronize you can adjust this by going
to your account and clicking on choose
folders the list shows you which photos
or subfolders are currently being synced
with your computer and shown in your
OneDrive file explorer view in case you
don't want to keep or don't need access
to some folders locally you can just
untick the boxes and they will be
unsynced this might make sense if you
want to free up a lot of space at once
or if you just need some specific
folders on a second or third device such
as a laptop that you're traveling with
even though working with OneDrive should
be quite intuitive at least by now it's
still very important to keep it clean
and or organized such that you will
always have an overview of your files
and folders this however is not always
an easy task which is why you should
watch this video next where I will show
you how you can organize your files and
photos so you will never lose sight of
any document anymore
