hey there welcome back today we're
talking on a topic that's crucial for
all of us that care about Digital Data
I'm talking about the difference between
cloud storage and online backup if
you're thinking aren't they basically
the same thing the answer is well not
quite stick around as I go into detail
so you know which is the best place for
your data I'll also share which one I'd
personally choose so stick around until
the end I'll reveal all of my
secrets all right first let's address
the elephant in the room what exactly is
the cloud you've probably heard this
term a lot more so since we all began
working remotely but what does it
actually mean it's basically like using
someone else's computer when you upload
a file to the cloud you're actually
stashing it on a remote server owned and
run by companies such as Google Amazon
or Microsoft think of it like renting a
storage unit for your clutter only
instead of driving over to get your
stuff you can access your data as long
as you have an internet connection easy
peasy okay so now we know what the cloud
is let's look at how it compares to
online backup now this isn't like one of
your traditional battles where I compare
two of the same type of product you see
although they're similar cloud storage
and online backup do something a little
different than the other and let me let
me put it like this cloud storage is
like a digital closet you decide what
goes in how it's organized and you can
easily take things out when you want to
online backup on the other hand is like
a time machine for your device it
automatically saves everything on your
device it then creates creates a copy
that you can retrieve if you ever need
to recover from data loss and what's
useful about it is you can also choose
to run backups continuously or at a date
and time that suits you still with me
good let's dive a little bit deeper
shall we cloud storage services are all
about accessibility and in most cases
collaboration let's look at some of the
main features you can expect to get when
signning up for one of our cloud storage
services that we frequently recommend
here on the channel well first is file
syncing that means you can access files
you upload to the cloud on multiple
devices I'm talking desktop cell phone
tablet this is great if you have other
users on your account or if you need to
quickly access document while on the
move and you always want to ensure you
have the most recent change of that file
on all of your devices so if you make a
change at the office the file gets
synced to the cloud gets sync to your
other devices you leave the office you
come home you can work on that same
document the state you've left it at the
office sharing is caring with cloud
storage as modern Services make it
easier for you to essentially send files
to others you can do it in just a few
clicks and also control how the
recipient or recipients can interact
with a file like being able to view or
edit the files and as examples another
useful feature for desktop users is
selective storage you can basically get
to choose which files you upload and
sync to your computer and which files
you only store locally it's like packing
for a trip you decide what to take or
leave at home I should note that
selective sync isn't available with
every single cloud storage service but
it is a pretty common feature of these
days and if you make changes to a file
which you wish you didn't there's a
feature for that too I'm talking about
version history it's a feature that lets
you go back to an older version of a
file and make things return to how you
basically want them if there is one
thing about cloud storage that brings
the cloudwords team truly together it's
collaboration tools most cloud storage
Services have features built in that let
you work with others in real time no
matter where you are sitting you can
leave notes with with feedback make
suggestions and get work done as a team
I love that about cloud storage and it
really makes our team tick before we
move on I can already hear you asking
but what about privacy and security well
the most popular cloud storage Services
have topnotch security so the risk of
something happening to your data is
pretty low and limited privacy on the
other hand is a little bit of a mixed
bag some like sync.com put your privacy
first and ensure only you get to choose
who accesses your data others like
Google don't place a high premium on
your personal data privacy and love
selling your data on the highest bidder
so when might you choose cloud storage
working on projects is a good use case
or anytime you need to access and work
with files from more than one device
finally when you want to share files
cloud storage is the absolute way go for
you if you want to prevent losing all
your data including system settings and
apps that's where online backup comes in
data loss can come from many sources it
might be caused by a hard drive crashing
or some run running off with your device
or maybe a car runs over your mobile
device anything can happen to your data
and hey it could happen without online
backup your data is likely Gone Forever
here are some of the features it offers
the first one is automatic backup these
are a real data saver because you can
program your backup software to do its
thing at specific times this removes the
worry of always needing to remember to
do manual backup and think of it as your
personal system that's always making
sure your data is safe next up on the
feature list is
complete system backup it's here you'll
see a noticeable difference compared to
cloud storage you see unlike cloud
storage online backup saves everything
on your device
that includes apps system settings and
your OS file so if you need to factor or
reset your device you can restore your
exact set system settings with its
backup and running obviously it depends
on the online backup service now there
are cloud backup services that include
backing up of system files some exclude
system files specifically there are
different flavors of it so to speak
online backup has its own type of
version history as well for example
let's say you want to restore your data
back to a specific point in time you can
do this with online backup this is
useful if you accidentally delete apps
or files you wish you really hadn't have
you ever heard of a term called bare
metal restore well if you haven't don't
worry it's not some type of experimental
music only found in underground parties
it's actually a cool feature that lets
you restore your system to a brand new
device it's like upgrading without
having to start from scratch and
most of these bare metal restore
features are offered by business cloud
backup services but more and more
consumer services offer these two as
they see more people really needing to
restore their files the last core
feature I want to share with you is
archiving some online backup Services
let you store files even if you no
longer have them on your device for
example if you have an old video project
that's taking up space move it over to
the archive who doesn't want their own
personal digital adding right security
and privacy with online backup providers
are very similar to Cloud Storage
security at the most reputable Services
is as good as it gets on the other hand
privacy policies are in your corner or
serve the provider's needs take iDrive
it has excellent privacy with the option
to enable private encryption when you
sign up crash plan on the other hand
isn't as good with privacy and does not
have zero knowledge encryption that's a
bummer another thing to consider with
online backup is that it tends to be
slower than cloud storage particularly
with uploads if the total size is large
enough it could take hours or even days
with cloud storage uploads and downloads
often happen in minutes also online
backup with a few exceptions isn't meant
for file sharing or collaboration it's
more like a digital security blanket for
your data in case disaster happens so
when do you choose online backup I'd say
when you have data you don't want to
lose or if you're faced with ransomware
or device failures and let's face it
these are all valid concerns and real
possibilities especially for businesses
it can cost them millions or even cause
bankruptcy in some cases now I hear some
of you asking can I just use both yeah
yeah sure you can in fact I and other
Tech experts recommend using both cloud
storage and online backup for maximum
protection and data flexibility there's
also the 3 to1 backup rule which I've
explained here in this channel before
and also on cloudwords nnet so I also
recommend a physical backup somewhere
else not only relying on the cloud yes
that's me saying having a Channel about
cloud storage and a website about cloud
backup you also need another copy of
your files physically on another hard
drive that's the best think of it like
this cloud storage is is your everyday
bag it has the items you you use
regularly and it lets you access them
quickly online backup on the other hand
it's like an insurance policy it's there
if you need it but you really hope you
you never really have to use it but
trust me the day will come you will have
to use it a quick note on the cost of
services it's a tricky one because how
much service will cost highly depends on
how much storage you need and generally
though cloud storage is cheaper than
online backup if you're only working
with a with small amounts of data on the
other hand online backup can provide
more bang for your buck for large data
sets and I'll drop a link in the
description to some of my favorite
options so you can compare prices and
eventually make a decision for what's
the best for your needs and obviously if
you're like a business then things tend
to get a little bit more pricier because
you have other uh security factors and
other things um that you need to
consider now I know we've covered a lot
of ground here but um here's the thing
whether you choose cloud storage online
backup or both you're already ahead of
the game you're taking steps to protect
your digital life and that's a very
smart move remember the best option is
the one that fits your specific needs do
you often collaborate on projects then
cloud storage is your best bet don't
worry about it if you worry about losing
all your data then go with an online
backup provider and also remember that
you can and probably should use them
both for the best protection and
accessibility what's your next move well
I advise taking note of what type of
data you want to back up and how you
would like to interact with that data
then go sign up for an account and try
them out yourself most of them have free
service plans available or free trials
let me know in the comments what you go
for I'm super interested to hear your
thoughts and comments and if you found
this video helpful please as always hit
the like button subscribe this will help
the channel and also let me know what
other content you'd like to see I'm
looking forward to reading your thoughts
and ideas and see you in my next video
bye-bye
