[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
everybody welcome back to Jimmy's promo
and today I'm going to share with you
guys how you're able to create your own
personal cloud storage at home so right
now what I'm using is the Western
Digital My Cloud home personal cloud
mine is four terabytes in terms of
storage but there is a bunch of
different sizes you can choose there's
two terabyte six terabyte eight terabyte
12 16 and 20 terabyte now I have this
one set up with basically every
smartphone that I've ever had in the
last couple years as well as my wife's
and also all the tablets and if you
wanted to you can still plug in your
computer and laptop now I mostly just
use it for all of our smartphones
because we have multiples of those and
if you wanted to yes you can back up
your computers or you'd be able to add
in videos documents pictures things like
that from your computer so this way it
is on that cloud that you're able to
access from your smartphone so first
what I want to do is show you what the
application will look like then I'm
going to show you what this looks like
on amazon.com so you can take a look at
the product itself which I will be
linking below the video inside
description and then we'll head over
into the website version of this
application so you can see what that
user interface looks like as well so
first off the benefit of having your own
personal cloud at home is the fact that
you don't have to pay those monthly and
yearly fees you purchase the unit one
time and that is it it sits at your home
for many years to come so first let's
take a look at the application the first
tab on the very top is going to be files
and folders so for files and folders
you're able to create and set these ones
up I do have a bunch of backups for some
of my smartphones that I have I have
like a YouTube folder that I uploaded a
few videos from the computer itself so
this way I can access it here on my
phone if you go inside of here this is
all of the pictures that you have it's
going to show you everything that you've
taken for you know per month for every
single year so now we're in October of
2022 here is September of 2022 and then
this last tab on the very top is your
albums tab so this way you can be more
organized you can categorize things put
them in albums you can also share albums
with other people you can see this one
here this one was for the wife and I
shared it with her because she also has
her phone set up as well the cool thing
about it is that every user that you
have set up with this cloud storage you
can't see anybody else's data so
everything that I have backed up my wife
is not able to see and everything that
the wife has I'm not able to see
anything except for if she wants to
share anything with me now going back to
the second tab because this is the one
that's pretty important it's going to
show you all of the images that you have
again all of the smartphones that you
have all of your tablets you have
everything back up you can turn on auto
backup or you can have it off and you
can select things manually so right here
you can take a look at everything in
terms of everything or you can only take
a look at photos or if you only want to
search through your videos the next
thing is you can change how it looks so
by tapping that next tab if you want
your images to look a little bit
different you know if you take them in
horizontal or vertical and then this
right here is going to be able to break
down the month and the year so if you
know for a fact that there is something
that you took back in 22 you are back in
2020 that you want to take a look at
maybe there's some images back in 2021
you want to take a look at so here is
September of 2021 that's loading so I'd
be able to take a look at everything I
did if there's something particular that
I'm taking a look at so maybe this is a
picture that's very very important when
you tap on it you can share the image
you can add it to an album you can save
this one to your mobile device so maybe
you have a brand new phone maybe this is
your favorite photo you can save it to
your device and then inside of more you
can do all of that plus take a look at
all of the info you can see you know who
has access to it which is only me you
can see what phone took the picture when
it was uploaded things like that and
then the other thing that you also have
is going to be this little check mark so
this is kind of a organize and and
choose files so if there are particular
things that you want to add into a
folder maybe there's things that you
want to share or you want to do a mass
delete you hit on that delete button and
then you're able to get rid of those
things organize stuff like that if you
want to go right back to where we were
which is November of 2022 this is where
we're sitting so now let's take a look
at the application that you want to
download for this to work so you just
want to go inside of your Play Store or
App Store you want to search for my
cloud home it's a free application it's
made by Western Digital you just want to
get it downloaded and installed and you
just set everything up now the setup
process of this is super super simple I
mean really it's just a power cord as
well as the landline plugged in you also
have a USB in the back so this way if
you wanted to plug in a flash drive or
whatever and you wanted to add stuff in
that way you're able to do that as well
now on the top left hand side this is
where you can see a bunch of things you
can import photos manually if you wanted
to you can do more which just means
you're able to learn other things and
then you can also copy a USB there's a
bunch of other images that is being able
to be backed up right now so there's 374
left these are just screenshots this is
a new backup folder that I just selected
so this way you'd be able to see that
something is going to back up if you go
inside of the settings this is where you
go through the settings you can set up a
passcode so this way because it is an
application on your phone if people are
looking at your phone and you don't want
them to go through your Cloud just set
up a passcode and then you can set up
your fingerprint now inside of here
we're going to tap on my cloud home so
with inside of the My Cloud home this is
going to show you the users as well as
how much space is available so you can
see that we have a four terabyte of
storage and the space available is 3.45
but we have two users we have myself as
well as my wife now taking a look at the
two users you can see that I have used
about 4.1 percent of the four terabytes
the wife has used 5.7 percent of the
four terabytes so I've only used 157
gigs she has used 220 gigs so it's
really fun that you can have all of
these different users but never be able
to see what they are uploading and so
that just makes it very private for
yourself because again this is your
personal cloud I just happen to have
this unit sitting at home that I can add
multiple users where everybody can back
up now through here you can also reboot
as well as do erase all data now on the
rest of this settings page you can see
the auto backups right now we have it
turned on if I wanted to I can actually
turn off the auto backup and then I can
do things manually now when you turn on
the auto backup this is where you can
select what you would like to back up so
right now DCIM this is pretty much all
of my images that I take with the camera
now any of those images that maybe you
save from Facebook is right here maybe
if you have a folder that you
specifically created on your phone
called Florida then you'd be able to do
that Halo package one so these are just
different folders that I personally
created on my device you also have
screenshots and that's actually the one
that I just selected to show you what it
looked like if ones were updating or
uploading so I'm just going to turn
those off because I don't really need
screenshots they're not as important if
there are screenshots that I need to
have I can just manually input them but
here you can scroll through and you can
see what you're able to automatically up
update or a backup onto your storage
device and you can either do it on Wi-Fi
which that is the original normal setup
but if you want to do it with the
cellular backup you can actually turn on
cellular backups this way you're always
backing up all of your photos all of
your videos all of the time so even if
or I should say even when your storage
cloud is sitting at home which is where
it's going to be you'd be able to be out
and about in a completely different city
state country as long as you have that
you as long as you have cellular
anything that you have taken photos of
it'll be able to automatically back up
so you don't have to be at home for your
machine at home to have it all back up
so that's everything I wanted to show
you with the application side of things
you can take a look and specifically
look for photos specifically look for
videos you'll be able to change the way
it looks as well as take a look at
something from a few months ago or even
a few years ago here's the three little
tabs you have your files and folders
here's all the photos and stuff here's
albums you can create to organize
everything the very top left hand side
we already took a look at all of the
settings that you need to take a look at
and that's pretty much really about it
so here we are on the Amazon page this
is the Western Digital four terabyte my
cloud home personal cloud mine is a
single Drive White if you wanted to and
get more storage and go with the duo
Drive they have four six eight 12 16 and
20 terabyte but again I have that single
Drive the four terabyte was fine for us
again we're not even close to even
filling this thing up I don't even think
we're at 10 just yet and so with this
one for single you can go for two four
six and eight uh the price is very very
great when you think about the fact that
you don't have to pay month monthly fees
or anything like that like all the other
cloud services and this is just one
sitting at home you can just fully
customize everything as you've seen take
a look at it all so it has really good
reviews I love this thing I wouldn't be
shooting a video if I wouldn't want to
suggest it so because I do suggest it
I'm just going to share with you guys
that's what I've been doing for the last
couple years so I will be placing this
link below the video inside of the
description now we're going to take a
look at the website version so really
it's the same UI all you have to do is
just go to
home.mycloud.com and you just go through
and you sign in now once you sign in
this is the user interface right here on
your computer so here's your files and
folders as you scroll on down you know
you can take a look at any of these
things that you have created I have
music in there a couple videos in there
here's that shared uh folder right here
of girls night here is a drawing so this
was something that I have edited created
on the computer but I put it in this
folder so I can access it on my phone
let's take a look at all the photos so
this is everything that you just got
done seeing on the phone application
version and here's all of the photos
here's just only the videos if that's
what you would like to go for and then
you also have your date and time so if
you wanted to go through find something
specific you'd be able to do that you
can also do a search and that's really
where it comes in handy if you wanted to
go inside of here and then you want to
add in descriptions so albums exactly
what we saw on the phone as well shared
if you would like to share something or
if or let's say if someone shared
something with me so if the wife created
a album and she shared it with me this
is where I'd be able to see it on her
end of things when she goes to shared
that is where she's able to find her
girls night out if we go inside of the
settings so inside of the settings
pretty much looking like the uh the
applications you have your first name
last name email you can also change the
email reset the password as well as sign
out you can also add a user same thing
on the application and when you go
inside of the Jimmy's my cloud home this
is where you'd be able to take a look at
the details of the uh the hard drive
itself so here you can see that the
connection type here is local we've only
used a little bit of the storage so our
space available is 3.4 or 5 terabyte
still free so we've only used
0.55 terabyte which is not a lot at all
when you can when you consider all of
the smartphones that we have at home as
well as the tablets this is where you
can change the name of your unit if you
wanted to uh here you can have the
analytics on or off then you also have
the users area so this way if you wanted
to add more users I feel like I will be
adding in my sun at some point he's a
little too young right now even though
he has a smartphone every day but all of
his random photos doesn't need to be on
here when he gets a bit older everything
is much much more important to them
we'll be able to add him in as a user as
well this is where you can manage the
device device logs reboot the device
shut it down erase all data and then you
can also detach from the device itself
so that's pretty much it for this unit
here this is everything I wanted to show
off I showed you the Amazon page if you
want to take a look at it and purchase
it showed you what it looked like on the
website as well as what it looks like on
your phone as a as an application so if
you have a bunch of smartphones if you
have a bunch of tablets your tired of
paying all of those monthly fees of of
you know the Google backup or Samsung
backup whatever it may be any of those
cloud services if you're just tired of
paying those fees you might as well buy
the unit one time and have it for many
many years getting everything all backed
up again you can always go back in time
select an image you'll be able to
download it to your device and that's
pretty much what's the most important
and really you always just want to go
back to it if you want to take a look at
it and if you ever want to add in more
storage all you'd have to do is buy
another unit you can add it to it so
this way you have two of them plugged in
or you'd be able to transfer everything
from one to the other if you're getting
one that's much much bigger I just
highly suggest buying one more that's
maybe the same size so if you buy four
terabyte today maybe in 10 years you
might need to buy another one then just
go through and purchase another personal
cloud yourself but hopefully you guys
appreciated this video If you guys did
please give it a big thumbs up don't
forget to hit subscribe subscribe on the
very bottom left hand side and if you
like this video then more than likely
you'll also like this video and I'll see
you guys later
[Music]
