[Music]
raise lots of pearls around
machine-learning why for the most
important reason because everyone likes
to know the future even before that
event happens for example can I know
more about my customers and what are
they going to buy from me today can I
recommend products based on their search
patterns and find customers who are
dissatisfied from my service and based
on that who are likely to churn or
probably identified customers who are
likely to default on their payment
patterns now the question is why I would
like to make all these predictions
simply to ensure that I can take
necessary corrective action or necessary
corrective measure to ensure the future
behavior of customers is in line with my
expectation so business owners and
marketers would like to predict more
about their customers would like to know
more about their customers what they
need why they need when they need those
products all these information will help
them generate more profits secondly why
machine learning is important all these
things that we discussed machine
learning helps us to find and know the
future of our customers predict the
future
besides that machine learning also helps
you adapt and learn with changing
scenario these machine learning
techniques have a capability by which
they can Auto refresh they can
automatically refresh within with a new
stream of data that comes into the
system so with the new stream of data I
can refresh my model and
click the future and thirdly they also
helps you automate things such that you
can act and react fast with a changing
scenario these are some of the reasons
why machine learning of late is gaining
more and more prominence machine
learning and automation is the way going
forward if that is what is the way going
forward and businesses are going to
operate then let's understand what is
machine learning
simply put machine learning is algorithm
that learns from data identifies
patterns in data and store that learning
in form of a model and that model can be
applied on new set of data to predict
how it is going to behave how the
customers are going to behave in future
so that is what machine learning all
about by the way machine learning need
not just be applied to customers machine
learning techniques can be extended to
manufacturing industries machines and
lines and more for example I can apply
machine learning techniques on some
manufacturing machine to understand
whether any component of that machine is
likely to fail in near future if I can
flick whether a component is going to
fail in near future I can do a
preventive breakdown repair and
maintenance work in advance even before
the machine fails so that helps me
ensure my production and manufacturing
line continues to work smoothly so these
are some of the reasons why machine
learning is in demand
[Music]
