jQuery is a library that contains lots
of methods which make it much easier to
manipulate HTML documents ad animation
along with a bunch of other things since
jQuery is a library it has an API that
we can use to access its functionality
API stands for application programming
interface and it basically States the
methods or functions we can call inside
of our code if we import the library for
example let's say we had a class named
Blue and made its elements have blue
text we could use the add class me
method and add the blue class to all the
P elements with something similar to
this where we'd have p. addclass blue
this may be confusing right now but
don't worry we'll figure it out to start
we'll open Sublime and create an
index.html file so we'll go index. HTML
and then we'll also create a script.js
file and so we'll save this and we'll
put it in a folder called JS and so
we'll have that and then we'll call this
script.js and this will hold all of our
JavaScript and our query code and so
going back to our HTML we'll just add
some boiler plate
here and we'll add a quick script tag
here with JS
script.js close it up here and just like
we did for our bootstrap we're going to
need to import the JavaScript library
and so we'll go and look up the link
jQuery link and then add that into our
code
here scrolling down we have the CDN this
is what we want and since we're going to
be using jQuery in our script file we're
going to want to import this jQuery
first save that and then we'll add a
header inside of our body we'll call it
an H1 and we're going to set some
styling to that and so basically we're
going to create this hidden header and
we're going to do some stuff to it and
so we'll have the style equal text align
Center putting it in the center and
we'll give it the color white so it's
white text and it's hidden on you know
this page page with a white background
then we'll give it the ID hidden and
we'll have the text be I was
hidden and then close that each one now
if we open this index.html in the web
page here we are you'll see nothing's
there but if I highlight I was hidden
that's there what if we can make it so
when I hover over this H1 this ey was
hidden it reveals itself so maybe it
turns the text of this header black well
we can do this with CSS and jQuery and
so going back to our code we'll go to
our script and we're going to write some
jQuery code using you know its libraries
its methods here we go we'll say
document. ready function open close
curly bracket and so basically what will
happen is this the inside of this thing
will be called when the document is
ready to you know load stuff it's all
ready to go and so what we'll do is
We'll add some code to be run once you
know this document is ready to go and so
we'll say hashtag hidden. hover function
open close parenthesis open close curly
bracket and what this does is if I like
hover over the thing with the ID hidden
the code inside of this will be run and
so basically this is setting up like hey
if I hover over hidden like do this
other stuff that's here and so what
we'll want to do is if we hover over our
header that has the ID hidden we'll want
to select that hidden you know element
and we'll want to say this you know this
hidden element we're going to change it
CSS and we're going to set the color
property equal to Black so now you can
actually see this hidden thing and so
what happens when I you know go away
from the thing so I move my mouse so
it's no longer hovering over this hidden
element while we'd want a place where we
can add code that could be run you know
once I move over my mouse and so this
would be a call back function and so
once I stop stop hovering over you know
this hidden thing then I would want this
call back function to be called and so
here we go we're running it function
open close parenthesis this is what
would be run if I stop hovering over
this hidden thing and so we don't want
anything to happen just yet and so we'll
leave that call back function empty but
it's important you have it and then
we'll add these semicolons save it up
make sure this is saved and then we'll
go ahead and refresh our index.html
and we hovered over it and now it's
hidden but of course when it doesn't
re-hide itself once I stop hovering over
it but what if we wanted it to do that
well we could go back to our code and we
could actually hide it forever it was
one thing to make the text white but if
we go this do hide open close
parenthesis and then add that semicolon
save now when I refresh this I'll hover
over it and then I'll leave it but now
when I try to find it again it's gone so
it's like a j Bond you know your message
self-destructs type of thing but of
course if I refresh the page I you know
saw it for like 2 seconds and then it
hit again and then you can do it again
you keep it over this you go away there
you go back in our code the hide
function basically hides this element by
setting the display property to none and
so you could accomplish this same you
know hide thing if we did display none
but of course this is you know less code
and so we use that instead so we'll go
ahead and comment that out and if we go
back to our index.html we'll do one more
example of how to use jQuery and so if
we add this button and we'll say alert
me button you know save that up and
we'll say button doclick function open
close parenthesis open close curly
bracket and so what will happen here is
if I click the button any button on the
page it doesn't have to be one specific
button then this type of code will be
run if I wanted it to work for one
specific button I would do something
similar to this where I'd have a hashtag
you know name so would be an ID so
that's only for one thing versus this is
a button it's an HTML element so any
button I click this will be run and so
inside of here we'll you know send out
an alert because our button says alert
me and so we'll go
alerts I'm alerting you that's what the
alert is going to do we'll save that go
back here here we have this button we
click it it alerts me could we have done
this with plain vanilla JavaScript yes
but using the jQuery Library makes a lot
of this much easier to code and easier
to read later on next week we'll talk
about angularjs which is a structural
JavaScript framework that helps you
build Dynamic web apps for the first
time in the series we will not be
hardcoding our content but we'll be
getting it from somewhere else I hope
you learned something in this week's
episode and I'll see you next Friday
