I recently got asked what is the top
cyber security certification that you
should be pursuing this year in 2024 and
in this video I'm going to go ahead and
answer that hey if you guys are new to
the channel my name is Nicholas Moy and
in this channel I talk about cyber
security career advice and it career
advice and all that good stuff so if you
are pursuing a career in it maybe you
currently work in it but you're trying
to transition to cyber security all
things like that this is the channel you
want to be subscribing to because I
myself have been working this field for
about 18 years now I've been the hiring
manager for big companies like JP Morgan
and Chase deoe ernston young and a lot
of big companies so I can help you uh
kind of Skyrocket and navigate through
all the different uh loopholes and
systems and pitfalls that we face as it
professionals trying to transition into
cyber security so if this is you if
you're stuck in a position that you feel
underpaid undervalued and you're not
really liking it you really want to move
up you know if there's more you just
don't know how to get there and you're
trying to figure this out this is the
channel you want to be following so
let's go ahead and get into the the
video for today so got a question
recently on one of my uh one of my
videos somebody dropped a comment there
and they asked Nick what is the best
certification you could be pursuing um
you know to to build a successful career
in cyber security all right uh and I
might have botched that a little bit but
the gist is there right what's the top
certification all right so here's the
thing there is no one best magical
golden ticket certification that it's
not what it's there for I think if
that's the question that you're asking
you need to take a step back and and
think about what is the intention behind
a certification okay certification is
not a golden ticket to a job and and I
think a lot of people think that and
they study for certifications they try
to acquire all these certifications and
they're they're continuing to get the
next certification thinking that's going
to be the thing that gets them through
the door and it's not what it is what it
comes down to is your skills okay but
going back to the idea of
certifications certifications are
something that certify or attempt to
certify that you know a particular skill
set the disconnect here
which I don't think many of many people
within the industry have really realized
that unless you've been in this industry
for almost two decades like I
have um the disconnect here is that the
certification exam doesn't necessarily
test that you know the skills and many
of the certification exams are very
Broad in nature and they're very uh
vendor neutral in nature so there's not
really anything here to to test you on
except Theory right like if I I got a
book over
here um Security Plus Security Plus
study guide okay this whole entire book
is based on Theory when you go to sit
for the exam about 85% of your questions
are multiple choice questions asking you
to identify or
recollect a particular technology
a particular cyber security principle a
what would you do in this kind of
situation choose from the following
options it's things like that
identification recollection those types
of responses when I was writing the
questions for the AWS certification
exams that's exactly how they structured
it's a multiple choice multiple
answer uh identify and recollect or
recall um the the the right answer
that's it okay there's nothing really to
it um you just have to look at the the
answer options and choose the best
option okay now I say 85% for the
Security Plus because there's a few drag
and drop options where you know you've
got like you know you've got like maybe
a a computer and and they want you to
like use your mouse to to hover over and
and select the right thing right it's
like kind of like that drag and drop
thing still multiple Choice it's
still not applicable to what we do here
my job I don't get paid $200,000 a year
to go and and drag and drop stuff I get
paid because I know the skills I get
paid because I know the compliance
regulations I get paid because I can
advise uh Business Leaders to make the
right decisions in in cyber security
right so when we talk about the best
certification it all comes down to what
is your goal what are you trying to
accomplish that whole thing okay when
you're just starting out you're trying
to get a certification Security Plus it
is a option it's a it's an option okay I
don't want to tell you that you should
get the Security Plus and expect a job
because a lot of people say that a lot
of people go up on Tik Tok or here on
YouTube and they'll tell you you want to
get a job oh this right here
the federal government's going to be
drooling over you if you've got this
Security Plus which is hilarious because
they don't and people buy this all the
time thinking that that's their golden
ticket or I'm going to get the CompTIA
Trifecta like you actually did something
it's not it's not these are just
multiple choice exams that are testing
your knowledge on you know A+ which is
how do you build a computer how do you
repair a computer network plus which is
General Network Concepts do you know
what an IP is do you know what uh a CER
block is can you do a little
mathematical you know uh uh I'm not a
networking guy but you know you can you
can uh resize your network on paper okay
which in real life we don't do that we
have calculators that do that for us um
that's it right it's just really testing
your knowledge and your awareness on
High level principles within Network and
that's nwork plus right Security Plus
same thing high level principles
on Cyber SEC Concepts and you know what
a firewall is like stuff like that it's
like basic stuff you don't get a job by
knowing that you get a job by knowing
how to implement the firewall by knowing
how to identify which um uh data
regulations you need to follow for a
insurance company or you know what what
controls you need to be selecting for
your cloud environment that you're
migrating to right it's it's it's that
kind of thing and I apologize I have a
cold so if I sound a little stuffy
that's why that's the idea okay that's
the idea behind those certifications
so going back to the original question
which one's the best certification to
get all right depends on your goal if
you are trying to become a manager in
cyber security the cissp is hands down
the best one now let me be clear if you
have not been working in it for 5 years
do not waste your time I don't care if
you can get the associate no one's going
to give a damn if you've got the
associate of ISC Square no one cares
ever I will never hire somebody because
they pass the
cissp never okay I don't do
that um if you are trying to um if
you're trying to become a cloud security
professional uh depending on the vendor
you know there's a couple good ones your
AWS security is is a is a good exam it
tells you or teaches you and forces you
to understand the concepts of cloud
native Cloud native I'm being specific
here security tools within AWS so AWS
native security tools now what does
native mean that means AWS builds it AWS
sells it it's included in the AWS
console if you're an AWS user you have
access to it it's not a third party uh
piece right and and the thing here the
reason why I'm emphasizing this is
because corporate you know people you
don't you don't know this until you're
in it but corporations do not depend on
cloud native security controls for
several different reasons what they
don't always depend on it for several
different reasons reason
one uh they are multicloud and they need
something that can spread across
multiple Cloud providers not just Amazon
they need they have Azure they have
Oracle they need that the spread across
everything reason number two uh maybe
the tool is too expensive and they have
a cheaper option or maybe it's too
expensive for their need and so they are
going to go with a cheaper option reason
number three they've already purchased
the third party tool and it's sitting on
the shelf that's what we call shelfware
and so now they have a need to use it
they're going to use it so they're not
going to use the cloud native one reason
number four uh could be that it's just
it's just not good enough right reason
number five it could be that it is a
comp it doesn't meet the compliance
standard that they need to meet example
would be fed ramp fed ramp you know it's
a new Federal Regulation for cloud
providers that um anyone who does
business with the government and they're
using the cloud uh maybe there's certain
services that AWS offers that's not fed
ramp High fed ramp medium compliant that
would be an example of that okay so when
we talk about Cloud security there are
good Cloud certifications to get okay
they will help you get your foot in the
door that will help you understand the
concepts of cloud security if you're
trying to go for Dev SEC Ops there's not
really a lot out there um I do know of a
couple I
don't I I I can't I can't honestly um I
cannot honestly uh what's the word
what's the word what's the word I'm
looking
for condone it I don't I don't really
support it so if you're trying to go for
something Dev SEC Ops I would focus more
on the skills I would focus more on your
skills if you're trying to go for appsc
there's nothing that I know of that's
decent that I would hire for it's not
like a a magic dream golden ticket okay
so if you're trying to go for that I I
wouldn't focus on certifications focus
on your your skills okay if you're going
for GRC governance risk and compliance
uh do not focus on anything PCI DSS at
the moment you need to focus on your SAA
so your cisa a which is your auditing
certification um over some time I would
recommend you go for the cism that's
another good one um and then let's see
what else but notice here notice
something I'm focusing on specialty I'm
not focusing on Broad generalized uh
certifications okay I'm not telling you
pentest plus if you want to go become a
pentester there are great certifications
for that the
ocp uh the pmpt those are all good
certifications that are Hands-On they
teach you and they they solidify that
you know the knowledge is of of ethical
hacking and penetration testing okay um
so focusing on a role like when I'm
talking to you I'm telling you focus on
credentials that help solidify Your Role
don't go for the pentest plus don't go
for the cloud plus don't do a Security
Plus don't do a
cyssa plus or whatever that is from
CompTIA don't do um you know any any of
those I I don't I don't recommend it cuz
you know if even if you did like I had
the Security Plus at one point if you
got the Security Plus cool
great you'll never need to do it again
because you understand the principle
Concepts now you need to know the next
stuff you need to know the meat and
potatoes this right here is like taking
your dinner and mashing it up in a
blender and feeding it to a baby with a
straw right it's it's just not stuff you
need it's not going to feed you it's not
going to it's not going to give you what
you need and I guess doesn't feed you
quite literally it does not feed you
because you ain't making any money with
this
thing so and if you are cool you got
lucky but you know you're not really
going to be make making big money you
know $100,000 $150,000 $200
$250,000 because you got a Security Plus
you make that big money by focusing on
the role and the credentials behind it
so that's like a what 12 minute 13
minute video responding to your question
um but I hope this helps so couple
takeaways if you are looking to pursue a
career in cyber security you want to get
a certification I do think that's a good
idea there are certain certifications
you should be going after and uh it's
going to be based on the role and your
goals right so the type of position you
want to hold that's the type of
certification you should be pursuing if
if that's something that you want to
do
