if you're looking to get your first
cyber security certificate I know that
it's a lot of research and work to try
and make sense of all these different
certificates are available so don't
worry this video I got you I have been
doing my research on what are the best
cyber security related certificates to
do in when and who should take him
depending on where you are in your cyber
security Journey but before we do that I
got to quickly give a shout out to our
sponsor corera for making this video
happen let me introduce you to the
Google cyber security Prof professional
certificate on course era and not only
it gives you the foundation that you
need but they also show you how to
manage security risks the basics of
network security as well as all the
basic tools that you need to succeed and
it doesn't just stop at showing you
everything you need to break into cyber
security they also help you with your
resume interview prep and help plan your
career with their job search and guess
what it is 100% online and you can learn
at your own pace and you can complete
this program in under 6 months if you
dedicate only 7 hours a week so click
that link down below and get a 7-Day
trial try it out and let me know in the
comments what do you think but all right
let's jump into the video itself and
talk about these different security
certificates the first one we want to
talk about is the Cisco CCNA this is one
of the most popular ones and I still get
questions about is CCNA still relevant
to get and honestly I think it is very
relevant because of the fact that Cisco
is wildly used and a lot of times I see
people that I've br broken into cyber
security by doing CCNA and honestly if
you don't want to do CCNA it's too much
it's too expensive you do have the compa
options but also just want to keep that
in mind that CCNA itself is really
relevant because of how big Cisco is in
the networking field what you can expect
out of this certification is just the
basics of networking this isn't
specifically to break you into cyber
security but if you're coming from a
background where you don't have any
experience in it and you don't have
anything in cyber security and you want
to break into getting a job in this
field then getting something your your
CCNA or something similar to it is
always the first step to getting in
there not really relevant to cyber
security but I know a lot of folks have
gotten this and then later moved on to
the next CT and having it on the resume
has been super helpful I just want to
quickly talk about CCNA because I know
there's going to be a lot of questions
about it coming up but I also want to
talk about com's option because you have
more options you at have CompTIA
certificates like the A+ you have your
network plus Security Plus and pent Test
Plus those are all the four that I know
a lot of people have gone after starting
with the A+ because A+ is going to give
you the basics of it so if you're coming
from a background where you don't have
any solid foundation of it maybe you
didn't go study a computers and you want
to get a change in career then A+ is a
really good place to start and if we
look at their website really quickly
right here you can see it is going to
teach you things like operating systems
software troubleshooting it's going to
give you some understanding of security
it's going to talk about virtualization
and cloud computing mobile devices and
obviously networking at a high level but
then you want to jump into your network
plus your Network plus is going to be
where you learn more of the foundations
for networking and it's going to help
you prepare for jobs like a junior
network administrator maybe a computer
technician a network support specialist
a systems engineer again not cyber
security but the networking Community
has always been one of the strongest
communities that's been helping people
to break into cyber security itself
those are just the three that we talked
about the CCNA the A+ and network plus
they are not really a prerequisite but
they are a really good place to get
started again if you're not coming from
a solid cybercity background or just
general it so keep those in mind not
really cyber security related but it is
going to get you past HR especially if
you're just doing a change of careers
now let's talk about Security Plus
Security Plus it is very very popular
I'm actually going to bring up a
LinkedIn search here in just a bit to
see how many of them are going to have
Security Plus as a requirement but this
is going to be what is going to get you
past the HR in a number of different
ways and it is going to teach you things
like General Security Concepts threats
and vulnerabilities how how to fix them
security architecture security
operations and then obviously you're
going to see things like security
program management and oversight and it
is also going to prepare you for cloud
pentesting jobs a junior pentester job
network security analyst we pentester
and also security architect so there's a
lot of big jobs you can see here but I
want to kind of prove how popular
Security Plus is and now if we take a
look at these searches on LinkedIn you
can see the first job right here that is
a senior information security specialist
so now let's look at another job right
here we're going to look at this senior
cyber security and we going to look for
CompTIA and you can see again all of
these different jobs that we're looking
for to have a requirement or desire for
somebody with Security Plus obviously
you're going to have your G and some of
these other ones like OSP and say SSP
that are also going to be in there but I
kind of wanted to show how often it is
that you're going to see something like
Security Plus being one of the security
certificates that is required or desired
by people that are employing for these
positions but so far we have talked
about the prequest quits like the
network plus A+ those are things that
you want to learn before we jump into
cyber security we talked about Security
Plus that is going to kind of show you
the basics of security but now I'm going
to talk about the red versus blue sides
of things if you want to be on the blue
side of things when you're working on
the defensive side of cyber security you
want to take some sort of a certificate
that is going to focus more on the
defensive side so for example here we
have the cyber security analyst plus
this one is going to get you ready for a
security analyst role if R liability
management analyst maybe you want to be
on a stock team security engineer or
threat Hunter but you also have your
pentest plus which here is going to
focus mostly on the offensive side of
things this one is going to talk about
planning scoping out a pentest
information gathering vulnerability
scanning how do you attack and exploit
how to write a good report and
communicate with your customer or your
clients of course you're going to have
your tools in code analysis this one is
great if you want to become a web pent
tester a cloud pentester network
security operations but keep that in
mind you are on the offensive side with
pentest Plus versus the other another
one with your cyber security analyst
plus you are on the blue side which is
on the defensive side of cyber security
so please keep that in mind if you're
looking to jump into cyber security you
don't know what you like you may want to
play some ctfs go on one of these
platforms and see if you are wanting to
do more on the defensive side versus
offensive side which one is more
interesting to you before you start a
branch off and pick one of those to
itself me personally I like to be on the
offensive side this video is going to be
mostly on the offensive side of things
but I want to make sure I make that
available to you so you do understand
understand that you also have that
option to be a Defender and not be on
the red team or on the attacking side of
things so keep that in mind but let's
move on and talk about your pentests
these are going to be probably the most
popular ones on LinkedIn when you look
for jobs that are very focused on
attacking and breaking into things
starting with CH and if you're watching
this and you're not a fan of CH I
understand this certificate itself gets
a lot of flock online from a lot of
people because most of this content
that's available for CH you can learn on
your own you can go on webs Academy for
example or sign up for one of these CTF
platforms and learn them for free but
honestly CH is going to be a good place
if you have no web application pen
testing background and if we look at the
course outline online you can see right
here that it is going to teach you
everything you need to know for ethical
hacking for example from vul analysis to
system hacking to sniffing social
engineering dos hacking web servers SQL
injection iot hacking Cloud cryptography
and so on and if we look up CH or
certified ethical hacker you're going to
see 7,000 or more jobs that are just
specifically looking for security folks
with a CH background so keep that in
mind I know it gets a lot of crap
getting your CH and it is really really
expensive but it is one of those
certificates that it's going to be
getting you through HR and helping you
with your resume but it doesn't just
stop there there are other certificates
you can do that are more reputable at
least from the hacker side of things
starting with OSP which is your
offensive security certified
professional ocp or anything by
offensive security is probably one of
the most most respected certificates out
there and you can see right here on
their syllabus directly from their
website they're going to teach you a lot
of different things in starting with
getting you into a Cali VM setting it up
and then all the way down to security
strategies looking for methodologies
case studies tactics the test for this
it is absolutely hard I think you have
24 hours to break into a bunch of
different machines and write a report it
is probably one of the most stressful
and hardest certificates to get through
but honestly if we go back to our
LinkedIn search and look up ocp there is
going to be a lot of different jobs for
example this pentest job with blue of
California that is also going to require
your OSP I think if you have something
like a network plus A+ or you've even
done your pentest plus and you want to
go a step further OSP is definitely way
to go I just understand that this is
very expensive there are also cheaper
options that you can get for example TCM
SEC has a great option for the pnppt I
think is what they call it there's an
alternative route to go whether you do
your ostp or PNP that all just comes
down to which one is going to get you
has HR but honestly OSP has probably
been one of the most successful ones and
I know a lot of folks that go and get
their ocp as just a strategy to break
into cyber security and get a job on an
offensive security team I think it's a
really good stopping point for us I
didn't even get to talk about Sands or G
certs if you want to hear more about
those certificates drop me a comment I'd
love to cover them but I don't want to
make this too long I just want to
quickly make a video and answer a lot of
the questions around certificates where
should I start what should I get in
short if you're looking to break into
cyber security do an A+ and network plus
together will get you the basics of it
and also make you understand networking
if you don't want to do compa you also
have the CCNA on the other hand if you
already understand it and you know cyber
security at the basic levels you
understand security and you want to get
a job with a blue teamer for example do
something like your cisa Plus or you can
jump into the offensive side with a pent
test plus if you've already done those
and you're ready to go to the next level
I would personally recommend just
skipping CH but I do understand there's
very very possible so if you have the
money or a scholarship get your CH or
just jump over through ocp get ocp and
start applying for jobs and honestly the
other best thing that you can always do
is go through Linkedin look at all these
different job listings see what are the
requirements to get these jobs how many
of these certificates or the ones that I
haven't covered show up in each of these
different jobs and just go after them
and learn them on your own all right
that's it I know that was a lot of
information thrown at you I hope this
gives you an idea for the best cyber
security certificates for beginners
especially if you don't have a
background with it and if it does do me
a favor hit that like button subscribe
to the channel I will see you all in the
next video
[Music]
peace
