cyber security is one of the most
popular career options in IT industry
but landing a job in cyber security it's
not that easy you need to build a very
strong resume with very strong points
including education degree projects and
certifications and certifications are
among the most important criteria for
any HR or a manager to select the
rightful candidate for his most
prestigious cyber security job in big
companies that will show the right
skills and expertise that you have in
this field so in this video I'm going to
talk about top five cyber security
certifications and my picks in order for
you to land a job in cyber security and
Kickstart your career in cyber security
so let's get started we keep hearing
this fact from many people in it that
cyber security is biggest market right
now and it's only going to Boom but how
many people are getting supplied many
people are getting supplied but there is
an imbalance between the supply and
demand only because the supply that we
are getting is not rightfully skilled we
got a lot of candidates but are they
actually skilled to what the industry
want
according to a trusted survey there will
be million job opportunities and
openings by 2023 in India itself but if
you want to land a job and a good job
you need to be skilled to the core and
yeah I know you might have this question
that people ask me very often for
learning why do certifications why not
degrees why not colleges so the fact is
that College learning is not many times
not very often at par with what industry
demands there is a huge gap you may not
even be able to learn cyber security in
your college studies that's the truth
but in order to be good in this field
you need to be adaptive you need to
adapt at a pace that is not very often
kept up in college degree programs
syllabus don't very often change in this
degree programs while I do recommend
people to get at least one bachelor's
degree in CS or it but certifications
are the best way to boost your resume
and skills at the same time because they
take very less time they just focus on
one important Niche and go deep into it
and they generally don't cost you as
much as a degree while degree can cost
you in lacks maybe 10 or more but a
certification will not cost you more
than a lack or two and in a degree you
taught many more things that you don't
even need in your career that you want
to pursue but a certification will give
you a path to follow in your future so
here are my picks for the top five
certifications in cyber security that
will give you a good position in top
company and your dream job so I'll try
to list them in order of the experience
level so the very first certifications
that you will and you should do a c
certified ethical hacker this is the
most basic course that you can do that
will build the very fundamentals of you
understanding how attacks work how to
find issues in hacking a system this is
the bare minimum that everyone should do
in order to get started to get to know
what this field looks like so people
knew into this field and just want to
start their career as a fresher I think
this is one of the best certifications
to do I know many people don't count it
as worth because it's lacking very
Hands-On training on real world
scenarios but at the end of the day it's
a building block and it gives you a mark
of a certified hacker and still HRS in
India look for this badge at the bare
minimum in many cases so you can be hir
as a pentester or a security analyst and
then break the barrier of experience
once and for all and while you work you
can focus on your skill set and build
and do more certifications in the future
and just keep growing I know it's
difficult to manage skill development
when you work full-time even I face the
same especially when you are doing it on
your own in self- learning well well
well I know a program that can make you
a certified ethical hacker while you
study and guide you on your learning I'm
talking about simply learns
post-graduate program in cyber security
that is backed by top expert study
programs and faculty from MIT schwas man
College of computing and even EC Council
the program is an online boot camp that
runs for 6 months where you will learn
from industry experts how to design
build and Implement secure systems at
scale in large scale organizations the
course covers 20 of the most popular and
important security domains and how to
apply best practices in all of them and
it is also aligned with compt Security
Plus and will teach all the standards
covered there it will also teach you how
to develop a hacker mindset identify and
manage threats and also the overall
security posture of large scale
organizations at the end of The Learning
you will get a Capstone project where
you you will apply your industry skills
and you will get a chance to Showcase
your expertise to Future employers you
will also get access to EC council's
learning kit and C V12 iaps access for 6
months along with an exam voucher which
will make you a certified ethical hacker
while you study and you will also get a
certificate from MIT shwas man College
of computing that is really valuable in
your resume so to be eligible for this
program you should have a bachelor's
degree with 50% or more of grades and
you need not have any programming
experience or any prior work experience
so the application for this program is
really very simple just go to the link
in the description click on the link
review all the program details click on
apply Now button on the page fill all
the required details asked from you and
just submit and wait for the r back and
I know there are not many good programs
out there that can offer you so much at
the same time so don't think just go for
it the second search is coma Security
Plus I know C is very popular in India
but if you talk about all around the
world coma has done really good job in
establishing a foothold in this industry
this is also a basic certification made
for beginners which will teach you how
to secure network systems and
applications it's more on the security
side rather than the offensive side and
it's greatly aligned to Modern
Enterprise environment and in demand
topics that CH in some way fails to
cover including Cloud mobile and iot it
also covers governance risk and
compliance but yeah many people will
think that we still require practical
certifications but this is also a
theoretical certifications that will
have 90 performance-based questions that
are not straightforward that will check
your concept overall what you have
learned but still is theoretical but if
you want to get a job in foreign in us
or in UK or anywhere around the world
it's one of the most recognized
certifications out there you can be
hired as a security engineer Cloud
engineer IT Auditor with a very
competent package the third one is GC or
GAC certified security engineer those
who are already working in corporate
world may already know that sci is one
of the top and one of the best trainers
in the world out there and I personally
done gpan and I know that the knowledge
that you get there is nowhere else the
top experts from each field come out and
teach and of course that comes with a
cost GC is one of the best selling
certifications GAC has to offer it will
teach you active defense techniques
network security Cloud security incident
response forensic so it is one of the
best certifications for blue teaming and
the salary hike here is real I can tell
you from my personal experience if your
base is low you can easily get a 50%
hike if your base is high then you can
easily get 30 40% hike but the catch
here is I think not many individuals can
afford this because the cost is really
very high it can even go to 7 to 8 laks
for a single training and certification
so you can only do that if you're
employer sponsors you so if your
employer has a good bank balance and is
good enough you will want to do science
training again and again and again
fourth one is cisa or certified
information security auditor risk and
compliance are a very crucial aspect of
cyber security in today's world
especially if you working in an
organization that deals with sensitive
customer data like Health finance and
government agencies so isaka comes up
with this credential that will focus on
how to assess security vulnerabilities
how to report and identify risk and
manage compliance according to various
standards based on the customer data in
the Department Industry they are in you
must have heard about some data
standards like pcss ISO or heppa they
all come around this and this is one of
the best certification that you can do
for a governance risk and compliance job
or a GRC or an auditor risk manager or a
cyber audit manager and the truth is
cyber Auditors are more respected than
pesters because they are more wise in
decision- making and they have a good
grip and understanding of how to assess
business risk but this certification
requires some prior experience in it
Assurance so if you want to switch into
auditing then you can definitely take
this the fifth one is
cisp or cisp or certified information
system security professional and this is
no doubt one of the best or maybe the
best the most prestigious certification
in all of infosec earning which you will
be able to run complex Security Programs
and manage them just what cesos and
managers and directors do you will be
capable of running a complete cyber
security program right from design
analysis implementation and managing a
complete infos departments that just not
includes technical expertise but also
management expertise because that's what
you learn here and I can tell you the
salaries here are way more than what we
desire seriously it is meant for
experienced professionals with at least
5 years of professional work experience
in infosec and have a bachelor's degree
but here if I talk about salaries they
can easily go to 50 LPA and even beyond
50l for a ceso and you can even work as
a security consultant for world's top
organizations with a package only above
competition so these are my top picks
for cyber security certifications in
2023 that you can do in order to get
started in a cyber security career or
even get eventually good and experienced
and switch over to different fields if
you are experienced so I hope you like
this video and you got something
valuable to learn from this and don't
forget to enroll into simply learns
postgraduate program in cyber security
that will give you industry guidance
skills and also certifications at the
same time and do share this video with
somebody that you feel might be
benefited from this just like you did so
that's all in this video from my side I
hope to see you again till then keep
learning and goodbye
