I'm going to explain to you how to
become a cyber security engineer but
it's important to understand that there
are various Subs specializations that
fall under the umbrella of being a cyber
security engineer therefore there are
various Pathways that you can take to
become a cyber security engineer these
roles are highly paid and organizations
are always looking for people with the
skill set of a cyber security engineer
while these roles are highly technical
by Nature I will give you a stepbystep
road map to get you to become a cyber
security engineer even if you don't have
a degree or any technical knowledge this
video will upset a lot of Gatekeepers
because the word engineer seems to be
very triggering some people get really
defensive about using the word engineer
and they insist that you cannot call
yourself an engineer unless you go to
university and do an engineering degree
so in this video I'm going to piss them
off so bad that I'm going to help you to
become not only a cyber security
engineer but a worldclass cyber security
engineer with without needing to do a
degree let's get into it first thing is
your starting point you could be someone
who already Works in it you could be a
programmer or a network engineer or
perhaps you work in health desk or you
could be a seasoned systems engineer who
works with Microsoft Windows or even Lin
or you could be a university student or
you could be working in a completely
different industry like nursing or
accounting or perhaps you work in a
warehouse no matter what your starting
point is we first need to understand
what cyber security is before we start
engineering solutions to solve cyber
security problems so you may have some
cyber security knowledge or you may have
zero cyber security knowledge either way
there are non-negotiable cyber security
principles that you must know to
maximize your chances of Landing a cyber
security engineer role these principles
will help you both in the interview
process but they will also help ease
your transition so the things you learn
make a lot more sense there are
different ways to learn the cyber
security principles that I'm talking
about but my recomend recomended way is
by either doing the Google cyber
security search or the Microsoft cyber
security analyst search because they not
only teach you the fundamental
principles of cyber security but they
also include Hands-On Labs where you get
to practice what you learn so things
make a lot more sense and you can use
that Hands-On practice later on in your
career as a cyber security engineer the
Google cyber security search includes
Labs that teach you Linux MySQL and
Python and the Microsoft cyber security
analyst search will introduce you to the
Microsoft as cloud and the Microsoft
Sentinel platform I have separate videos
where I do a deep dive in each of these
programs which I'll leave a link to them
in the description box below but before
you ask the answer is yes if you've done
the compa Security Plus or the IBM cyber
security analyst certification or the
isc2 CC these are all fine too they will
introduce you to the cyber security
fundamental principles and if you find
that you have gaps in your knowledge you
can always go back and do the Google
cyber security search or the Microsoft
cyber security analyst search now if
you're watching this video you probably
are passionate about a career in cyber
security or perhaps you have a desire or
a calling deep down that's drawing you
to cyber security whether to fight cyber
crimes or to do something you're
passionate about that has career
progress opportunities but if you choose
the pathway of becoming a cyber security
engineer you need to know that this is
the pathway of solving cyber security
problems by installing configuring and
troubleshooting cyber Security Solutions
these Solutions can be a device or a
group of devices or a piece of code or a
set of tools designed to accomplish the
task of stopping Hackers from breaking
into an organization or a government
agency therefore it's crucial to
understand why you're building and
configuring these tools but the Dilemma
that we have is that there are so many
tools out there but not only that a lot
of those tools are completely different
than one another for example there is no
similarities between something like a
firewall and a devop scanner that scan
code for secure coding principles they
require completely different skill sets
the firewall would requ require deep
networking understanding while the
develops toool require understanding of
programming and best practices for
programming when it comes to secure
coding now the good news is there is a
beginner friendly training course that
will quickly introduce you to all of
these Concepts at the same time but not
only that it also have Hands-On Labs
where you get to practice all of these
principles and tools the course is from
tryhackme it's called the security
engineer training it starts by
introducing you to the different
security engineer career Pathways it
introduces due to basic principles such
as cryptography and identity and access
management then it goes over some of the
basic principles of GRC and it will even
get you to do some vulnerability
management scanning then on section
three it talks about Network and system
security this is meant to introduce you
to the principles of being a systems
engineer or a network security engineer
and it does a pretty good job at
introducing you to Linux Microsoft
active directory network security
protocols virtualization and it even
introduces you to the cloud now section
four is my favorite section because it
talks about application security so it
takes you through the OS top 10 and then
it talks about API security and the
software development life cycle it will
then introduces you to S and D which we
will talk about later in this video the
last section of the course talks about
Incident Management and incident
response that will introduces you to
what a cyber security engineer does when
it comes to incident detection and
response these are really extremely
important concept that you need to make
sure that you understand really really
well because the last thing I want is
for you to become a security engineer
who is good with the tools but doesn't
understand why we use the tool and what
purpose they serve trust me I've made
those Engineers they are not good
Engineers we need to know how to use the
tool but we also need to understand the
why behind the tools this is what
separates the bad engineer from the
really good and great Engineers once you
finish this training course you will
have a pretty good idea about the
different areas and different tasks that
a cyber security engineer does after
that we need to pick a specialization
and do further training into that
specialization to to help us land our
first cyber security engineer role the
first specialization is the detection
engineer the detection engineer is a
professional who specializes in
detecting cyber attacks and malicious
activities in the network and this is a
huge task because hackers are really
good at hiding their tracks there is
always new threats there is always new
attacks so a detection engineer is
someone who's extremely busy and does an
extremely important job in the industry
to detect cyber attacks we use a tool
that we refer to as seam this is a
centralized log server where we get logs
from everywhere in the network and using
that seam we create what we refer to as
detection use cases so these detection
use cases are an automated way for this
seam to detect unusual activity the
detection engineer is the individual who
creates those detection use cases they
refine those detection use cases and
they are always working towards creating
more detection use cases and improves
the one that are already there now the
most prominent seams in the industry are
Splunk which still has the biggest
market share in the industry but then we
also have Microsoft Sentinel which lives
in the Microsoft Azure Cloud now the
good news is Splunk offers completely
free training that can take you from
knowing nothing about Splunk to becoming
an expert in Splunk I know it's crazy
but it's completely free and it's really
good quality training so if you want to
become a detection engineer I recommend
you do all of the training courses on
the Splunk website starting from the
very basic ones all the way to the most
advanced courses you need to become a
Splunk wizard because this is the skill
that will lead you to becoming a cyber
security engineer who specializes in
detection now getting your first job as
a detection engineer will always be a
challenge because you don't have the
experience that organizations are asking
for I've seen people get their first job
as detection Engineers using two methods
the first one is simply called applying
to every job that's advertised which I
highly recommend that you do once you
finish all of these spun courses and
once you feel you're confident enough
with using spung then you should be
applying to every job advertised that's
asking for spun skills the second way
that I've seen people get hired as
detection engineer is I've seen
individuals who work in help desk and
some of them work in the networking team
or in the IT team but then once they
start learning spun they start offering
their help to the cyber security team
they offer automating some tasks they
offer helping with detection use cases
once you have good Splunk skills there
are many many ways where you can
demonstrate that you have the skills and
this way they were able to be hired into
the cyber security team to work as
full-time detection Engineers I've seen
it happens there is always a need for
people with good Splunk skills now the
Third Way that I've seen people get
hired as detection Engineers is they
simply start a cyber security analyst
there is a fine line between being a
cyber security analyst that works in
detecting and responding to cyber
attacks and a cyber security engineer
who specializes in detecting cyber
security threats in some environments
that individual is the same so you
perform cyber security analysts tasks
and cyber security detection engineer
tasks the team is simply too small so
you'll end up doing everything so my
advice to you is to be a little bit more
flexible in your job search just type
the word spun and apply to everything
this in my opinion is the best way to
land your first job now if you want to
learn Microsoft Sentinel which is an
important theme usually what I want you
to do is to become good with the
Microsoft cloud platform which is
Microsoft Azure then you can combine
that with Microsoft Sentinel skills I
will explain to you how to do that later
in this video when we talk about the
cloud security engineer pathway the next
important specialization is the
automation engineer the word automation
is Broad but in every environment we
always need someone to automate
repetitive tasks now that automation can
happen in the health desk or in the
network or in the cyber security
Operation Center now I want to prepare
you to become an automation engineer in
the cyber security Operation Center now
there is levels to this game automation
can be a simple script or it can be a
complicated program with visual
dashboards now this is where I will lose
some of you but if you want to become an
automation engineer you have have to
love coding because this is the coding
specialty you don't need to learn every
language Under the Sun in fact we will
pick one programming language and we
will get really good at it but we're not
going to do so in a random manner
instead I will focus your learning into
learning and practicing with cyber
security tasks relevant to the cyber
security team so you can land your
automation engineer job within the cyber
security team because those are the ones
who will pay you the most trust me on
this one now the Google cyber security
search will get you started with python
which is the language that we will use
for this specialization but this is
where the real fund begins because we
will use it for cyber security purposes
and that's a specialized use case so to
do that the first training that we will
do is called python for cyber security
it's from the infos Institute I'll put a
link to it in the description box below
it will introduce you to how to use
Python for cyber security tasks it's
really good because it will get you
practicing with extremely important
Concepts so the first module will be an
introdu ction the second module will get
you to Deep dive into pretty cool topics
such as persistence execution and
privilege escalation if you've ever
worked as a cyber analyst or if you ever
learned any topics related to cyber
security incident response this course
will teach you how to use Python to
accomplish these tasks extremely useful
course that I recommend for anyone who
wants to be an automation engineer but I
also recommend it to cyber analyst as
well because it will make you a better
cyber security professional now once you
finish that the next course that I want
you to do is also from the infos
Institute it's an advanced python
scripting for cyber security so it will
take everything that you've learned in
the first course and it will build on
top of it where it will get you to
perform even more advanced cyber
security tasks using python now once you
finish these two courses you will be
pretty competent with using Python and
at this stage you can actually start
applying to jobs as an automation
engineer or an automation specialist
That's focused on cyber security but if
you've been watching my videos for a
while you know I'm big on hand on
practice and practical projects so I've
curated a list of practical projects for
you that you can use as a portfolio to
help you apply to your first cyber
security engineer role the first one is
called python scripting for devops it
will take you 2 to 3 hours to finish
this project it's pretty basic but it
will get you to apply your python skills
within a devop environment which is
something you might run into as an
automation engineer the next project
will also take you about 1 to 3 hours to
finish where you will use Python to
create a dis usage report for l this is
a traditional task that we use to
perform as Unix Engineers so it's a
pretty useful way to get to apply your
python skills and gain some more Linux
skills speaking of Unix I have a
completely free weekly cyber security
newsletter where I share with you tips
on how to land your first cyber security
job sometimes they are a followup on the
videos and sometimes these are things
that I didn't have time to mention in
the videos so if you haven't signed up
yet please head to Unix guy.com and sign
up today the next project is a little
bit more advanced and it's cyber
security focus it will get you to write
your own python tool to footprint a web
application so it will show you how to
install and use Docker to host your
private web application you will learn
how basic web application work you will
write a python script to read from a
text file this is a more advanced python
project where you will learn a little
bit more about web hosting about using
DOA but you'll also perform a pretty
cool Saba security task the last one is
also cyber security related and it's a
little bit harder than the ones that you
performed before in this one you will
learn a little bit more about encryption
and how you can use Python to encrypt
data now by the end of all of these
projects you will be extremely confident
with using Python and trust me at this
stage you will have an extremely
valuable skills that employers are
looking for so please please start
applying to jobs because organization
will want to hire you now before I move
on just a word for those who think they
hate coding I've heard this from so many
people before they absolutely hate
coding in fact on a weekly basis I get
questions like do I need to learn coding
to work in cyber security and as you
know the answer is usually no you don't
need coding to work in cyber security
but if you want to become an automation
engineer you need coding now some people
genuinely don't like coding but in my
opinion When someone tells me they don't
like coding it just tells me that they
haven't spent enough time trying to
learn coding I could say that I don't
like martial arts but the truth is I
haven't spend enough time learning
martial arts therefore I think I hate
martial arts so if you think you hate
coding my recommendation to you is just
start doing some python scripting start
doing some of these courses that I
recommended and you'd be surprised maybe
you'll end up loving coding and perhaps
it will be your specialty a cyber
security professional who knows a
programming language this is like a
secret weapon because there is a lot
that you can accomplish with a
programming language that is simply not
possible otherwise the third
specialization is the application
security engineer as the name implies
the application security engineer is
someone who specializes in securing
applications those application can be
Standalone application they can be
mobile application or they can be web
applications the good news is the
tryhackme security engineer training
course does a pretty good job at
introducing you to the vast majority of
topics that you will need as an
application security engineer so what we
can do here is we can further strengthen
our understanding and knowledge of the
fundamental important aspects of
becoming an application security
engineer there is only one training
course that I want you to do here which
is focused on the o top 10 the trackme
training course course does a good job
at introducing you to these concept but
I want you to do this one to further
improve your understanding and the
reason why I want you to do it is
because your bread and butter as an
application security engineer is the O
top 10 you need to be an absolute expert
in the O top 10 but this will lead me to
the biggest dilemma with application
security you see application Security
Professionals disagree on a very
fundamental issue which is should
application security Engineers be
ethical hacker meaning should they be
able to do penetration testing on web
applications or is learning the
fundamentals of application security
Concepts such as OS top 10 is enough to
be a good application security engineer
to be honest with you the answer is a
little bit more nuanced because I think
both sides have Merit to their arguments
so what should you do let me clarify to
understand this you need to understand
the difference between s and d s is
basically the static analysis of an
application this is where application
developers have written the code maybe
some of it maybe all of it and you can
come and analyze this code that can
happen through running a secure code
scanner or you can read that code and
interpret it to make sure that they
followed the OS top 10 recommendations
for example during this phase you don't
really need to do any penetration
testing because just the secure code
review is enough but when you do D which
is dynamic analysis of applications
that's when we need to perform ethical
hacking now from what I've seen in the
industry people who do application
security they're not the same people
people who do the penetration test in
the real world we usually have an
external organization they come and they
perform the penetration test because we
need an independent entity to tell us
the problem within the code so as an
application security professional you're
kind of the first level of Defense
because you catch these problems you get
them fixed before the application is
finished this way when the ethical
hackers come and test the application
there is very little to find now my
verdict if you want to become a really
good application security engineer or
first off you need to follow the
recommendation that I've outlined before
so do the tryck me security engineer
training then do the OS top 10 training
that's your basic fundamentals I believe
the next step for you is to learn a
programming language because it's really
hard to analyze code and find problems
with codes if you don't know how to code
yourself so a good suggestion for you as
an application security engineer is to
do the python recommendations that I've
outlined in the previous section because
that knowledge will make you a really
good application security engineer now
as far as learning penetration testing
for application security engineer I
think it's not necessary I think it's a
little bit of an Overkill but if you've
done all of the recommendations that
I've outlined before and you've even
learned python I think the next step for
you is to practice those a top 10
recommendation in a lab environment and
the good news is there is a completely
free training and free Hands-On lab from
Port swinger this is extremely useful
because they have individual labs for
each and every topic in the O top 10
where you will get to practice and see
how these vulnerabilities look like and
how you can fix them I can't recommend
these courses enough for you if you want
to be a really good application security
engineer and trust me some of the
biggest organizations in the industry
like Google and meta are always looking
for good application security Engineers
so if this is your jam you will do
really really well the next one is the
systems and network security Engineers
to be completely honest with you I
almost didn't include this one in this
video but I've kept it here just for the
sake of completion but also because I
know some of you are interested in this
pathway this is the individual who
configures the firewall the proxy the WB
also this is the individual who perhaps
configure Microsoft active directory or
they do some kind of system security
tasks such as hardening Windows Os or
hardening Linux OS now the problem with
this specialization and the reason why I
didn't want to include it here is
because the truth is this doesn't really
fall under cyber security the title have
the word Security in it and the cyber
security team need these task to be
performed but usually the individual who
performed this task is someone who's
first and foremost a really good network
engineer or a really good system
engineer so if you want to be the
network security engineer who configures
the firewall or the proxy or the W you
actually need to be a network engineer
who then learns these tools in terms of
training if you're a network engineer
then Cisco has a set of free training
that's focused on cyber security that
you can do and likewise Palo Alto have
also a set of tree training that's
focused on their own own products and
their own firewalls but other than that
just know that these titles while they
have the word Security in them they're
really Network Engineers that perform an
extremely important task for the
organization now the next specialization
is the cloud security engineer the cloud
security engineer is someone who is
really good with the cloud they are a
cloud engineer first and foremost but
then they also have cyber security
skills and they know how to implement
cyber security recommendations within
the cloud environment I've said this
before and I will say again but
combining Cloud skills with cyber
security skills is potentially the best
thing that you can do to your career
because there is a huge demand for
people with Cloud skills and cyber
security skills the main Cloud platform
that you need to learn are the Amazon
AWS Cloud the Microsoft Azure cloud and
to a lesser extent the Google cloud and
one thing to know about all of these
platforms is that they're extremely
similar so if you get good with one of
these platforms then it's really easy to
switch to other platforms they work
exactly the same just the naming
convention is different now if you want
to become a cloud security engineer
there is a cloud security Focus
certification from each of these vendors
so from AWS there is the AWS security
specialty from Microsoft Azure there is
the Microsoft Azure Cloud engineer
associate and there is even a Google
Cloud security engineer certification if
you want to know how to get started and
how to learn and pass these
certification and how to eventually
become a cloud security engineer then I
created a stepbystep road map focused on
just the cloud security engineer pathway
in this video where I will show you the
fastest and cheapest way to becoming a
cloud security engineer and I'll see you
there
