yes I just passed the ISC squ CC which
stands for certified in cyber security
dear Caleb congratulations we're pleased
to inform you that you have passed the
certified and cyber security examination
by passing this examination you've
completed the first of three steps
toward earning the certification and
becoming an ISC Square member so in this
video I'm going to be telling you guys
how exactly I passed the ISC Square CC
how I studied for the exam different
tips on how I pass the exam and my
overall experience taking this exam
remember I'll be putting study materials
in this video that you can go away and
use to pass the exam as well the same
way I did please enjoy this
video what's up guys my name is Caleb
Oni certified and this is another video
on an exam which I've recently passed so
let's talk a little bit about the exam
so certified in cyber security is a
found foundational exam which covers the
foundations and the basics of cyber
security the exam is 100 multiple choice
questions and you have to complete this
exam within 2 hours which I think is a
reasonable amount of time for 100
multiple choice questions you're not
going to need the full two hours I took
this exam just this morning and one of
the things I noticed immediately is that
once you do a question you can't go back
and review questions and you can't flag
them and review them at the end you just
go through one question and go on to the
next to the next there's no going back
so make sure you pick the answer you
really think is correct cuz you're not
going back to it you do have enough time
to think and to process is this the
right answer that I want to pick and use
that time wisely so for me this exam had
to be taken at a test center I didn't
get the option to take it from home and
of course the pass Mark is a 700 over
1000 like a lot of certifications are if
you're going to take the IC Square CC
and you've been studying for this exam
with the online training it's worth
noting that the questions in the online
training are a little bit easier than
the ones on the actual exam and the exam
is a little bit more difficult not to
worry because I'll be mentioning some
resources in this video that you could
use to find some resources which have
some questions that are a lot closer to
the ones in the actual exam so let's
talk about how I studied for this exam
and what resources I used I took this
exam because I'm working in the role of
a cloud security engineer and I'm coming
from more of a cloud infrastructure role
so there's a lot that I need to learn
and improve on when it comes to cyber
security so it was definitely a good
idea for me to go and take a
foundational cyber security exam and
study for it and understand a bit more
about different cyber security terms and
terminology and stuff like that it took
me about 3 to 4 weeks to study for this
exam but I definitely could have studied
in one or two just because I've been
working in Tech for about almost 2 years
the reason it took me 3 to 4 weeks was
more because I was studying and working
at the same time and I was trying to
find time here and there to study
studying working doing YouTube uh
playing basketball doing life there's a
lot of things and it was kind of hard to
find the time to study time management
wasn't the best there were only two
resources which I needed to pass this
exam and I'll be mentioning them now
remember that I'm going to be putting
links to these resources in the
description deson of this video so if
you want to use them check them out and
the first one of course is the ISC
Square training the free online training
for the IC squ CC should give you
everything you need to pass however it
would be really helpful to use other
resources as well the online training is
really good it's really in-depth I think
for me sometimes it was too in-depth
sometimes it goes so deep that you're
not sure if what you're reading is going
to come out in the exam or it's worth
even knowing
I'm more of a video person and I'm good
with video courses personally and
because the ISC Square training had a
lot of written
information and video it was kind of
hard to balance the two I was confused I
was like do I need to watch all of this
video do I need to read all of this
written information and so a lot of the
time I was skimming through the written
information and then watching the video
and I knew that I would need some more
resources to pass this exam I looked
online and on Reddit I saw someone say
that the actual exam is a lot harder
than the questions in the training and I
believe them and went after looking for
some more questions which would be
similar to the exam and in doing so I
came across my second resource which was
a YouTube channel called prob naer and
prob naer has several questions on the
ISC squ exam and these practice
questions were really good he doesn't
just go through the questions and
answers but he also explains each and
every question which was really really
helpful for me when I took the exam
because it wasn't just the questions
that were going through that were going
to come out in the exam but it was the
teaching that he gave and the
explanations that helped me to
understand these questions and so I'm
going to be linking his YouTube channel
here he is really good and he goes
through the explanations really well so
definitely check that out cuz not only
did these videos give me a feel for the
exam they also gave gave me explanations
on different questions and different
things that would come out and those
were the only two resources I needed to
pass this exam I've been working in
cyber security for about 10 months and
maybe if you haven't been working in
cyber security as long you might need
more resources but for me this was
enough and I think for most people this
would be enough even for some people who
haven't even worked in cyber security
that long that may be enough for you as
well it all depends on the person I'm
really grateful to have passed this exam
and the next step is to claim the
certification and become an ISC squared
member and to do this you have to pay
the $50 to become a member and
officially get the certification
rewarded if you've passed this exam or
are preparing for this exam please tell
us about your experience studying and
how it's going for you or how it's gone
for you in the comments section thank
you so much for watching this video I
hope it's been helpful for those who are
trying to take this exam or those who
have taken it already and I will see you
guys in the next video subscribe to the
channel follow me on LinkedIn and
Instagram and I'll see you
[Music]
later
