[Music]
so you have an idea for a new iot device
or maybe you are looking to upgrade an
existing product we know that Hardware
is hard and you still need the software
to make it smart connect to the cloud
build a mobile app and manage your iot
business at scale that's an expensive
new team to hire and maintain what if
you could just focus on your core
product and start selling soon blink
will cover all of your iot software
needs here's how it works choose from
hundreds of connectivity modules out in
the market add a blink engine to your
device firmware to manage connectivity
data exchange over-the-air updates and
all other vital functions connect
devices to our secure Cloud use Blink
app builder to create a mobile app for
your end users with no coding just drag
and drop pre-designed elements to build
a custom UI whether it's a smart home
agriculture asset tracker or any other
connected device they can all work in
the same app the app is integrated with
blink Cloud so the whole system works
out of the box once your app is ready it
can be branded and published to App
Store and Google Play Now customers can
buy your device and easily activate it
with the app control it from anywhere
and receive important alerts with blink
managing thousands of devices and
clients is a breeze business insights
better tech support remote firmware and
app updates new marketing channel all of
the tools are there to help grow your
business blink is the only iot platform
you need to prototype launch and manage
iot devices so you can focus on your
next big thing
[Music]
