the Internet of Things is huge seven
point one trillion dollars of value
generated and 30 billion connected
devices by 2020 it's happening now and
you can be a part of it
IBM's IOT platform lets you connect
sensors and devices through the cloud
platform using IBM bluemix also you can
collect and secure data run
industry-leading analytics and gain
insights in real time to make timely
business decisions we help you build
launch and manage IOT applications and
solutions quickly securely and at scale
whether you're a fast-moving startup or
a global enterprise the IBM iot platform
harnesses the power of the cloud
open-source solutions and secure
flexible technology you can shape IOT
your way as you create new business
models and revenue streams turn devices
into points of transaction and value
understand usage patterns and seamlessly
manage logistics and physical assets you
can quickly get started with the iot
platform on IBM bluemix by connecting
your IOT device a sensor gateway or
other smart endpoint to the cloud send
the data to IBM bluemix via a secure
lightweight messaging protocol like MQTT
now access everything in our convenient
platform the iot platform manage your
connected devices and access api's
analyze the physical world in real time
use predictive models to optimize
servicing bring the power of Watson to
your things choose from over 70
additional IBM bluemix services to
enrich the application
it's all scalable adaptable and open to
all device vendors so you control your
data experience IOT for yourself with a
free trial visit us online at ibm.com
follow the try demo sign up for IBM
bluemix and you're ready to go use your
new IBM bluemix login to quickly deploy
a sample application and your iot
service connect your smart phone sensors
to your own application open the iot
dashboard to see the data streaming to
the service now return to your bluemix
dashboard and click services and api's
here you'll find an ecosystem of
services from data storage and analysis
to cognitive computing to mobile the
number of services are growing fast to
help you evolve with the market demands
for help head to our
I owe t homepage for content including
videos webcasts in our developerworks
site where you can get answers from
other developers this is an incredible
moment with an exciting future imagine
cognitive computing platforms like ibm's
watson assessing IOT data delivering
insights and helping you innovate IBM is
making IOT simple secure intelligent and
accessible to deliver on your business
objectives get started today
you
