foreign
we're going to discuss transfer learning
let's Dive Right In first what is the
definition of transfer learning and what
does this actually mean
the formal definition is
a transfer learning is the Improvement
of learning in a new task through the
transfer of Knowledge from a related
task that has already been learned okay
now what does that actually mean
yourself as a child learning to ride a
bicycle for the first time is difficult
and took lots of time to learn you need
to learn everything from scratch how to
keep the balance how to steer the wheel
how to break now imagine yourself today
wanting to learn how to ride a
motorcycle you don't need to start from
zero it is much easier for you to learn
how to keep your balance or use the
brakes even though you're in a different
setting you can transfer the skills
learned from riding a bicycle that is
the essence of transfer learning okay so
in a machine learning context and not a
learning to ride a bike context what
does this look like transfer learning is
a technique that enables algorithms to
learn a new task by using pre-trained
models take an algorithm that has
learned how to recognize dogs
this algorithm can be trying to
recognize cats with relativities by
transferring certain abstract Concepts
before transfer learning traditional
learning meant that machines learned in
isolation once the machine was given a
large enough data set it learned how to
perform a specific task however one task
with a new problem to solve it cannot
resort to any previously gained
knowledge instead a conventional
algorithm needs a second data set to
begin a new learning process however in
transfer learning the learning of new
tasks relies on previously learned tasks
the algorithm can store and access this
knowledge the module is General instead
of specific why is this beneficial this
technique of transfer learning unlocks
two major benefits first transfer
learning increases learning speed with
less new things to learn the algorithm
is faster to generate high quality
output
to use another analogy a nice hockey
player is likely to learn more quickly
to play field hockey than an average
person because certain Concepts apply to
both disciplines
second transfer learning reduces the
amount of data required in additional
learning an algorithm can only learn
when fed with enough training data
sometimes millions of data points this
data might not be available at all or
too expensive to generate and prepare
for the model so there you have it
transfer learning is how machines learn
by sharing knowledge now that you're
here I wanted to tell you about levity
levity is a tool that allows you to
train AI models on images documents and
Text data you can rebuild manual
workflows and connect everything to your
existing systems without writing a
single line of code if you liked this
video you'll probably love levity and we
can't wait to hear from you
foreign
[Music]
