welcome back Learners it's time for
question two to find out how machines
learn let's go which of the following
best describes the primary difference
between supervised and unsupervised
learning in machine learning is it a
supervised learning uses labeled data
for training while unsupervised learning
uses unlabeled data or could it be B
supervised learning clusters data in the
groups while unsupervised predicts
outcomes based on input
features or is supervised used for image
recognition while unsupervised is used
for language
translation or could it be that
supervised models are deterministic
while unsupervised models are
non-deterministic what do you think it's
a supervised learning uses labeled data
for training while unsupervised learning
uses unlabeled data and let's see why
think of it like you're teaching a kid
math if you give them a worksheet where
every problem has the answer written
next to it that supervis learning you're
guiding them by showing them both the
problem and the solution so they can
learn from these examples now if you
give them a bunch of problems with no
answers and they have to figure out the
patterns on their own that's
unsupervised learning distractor B said
that supervised learning clusters the
data but that's not actually what
unsupervised learning does it's more
like giving the kid a bunch of random
toys and saying sort these into groups
well without telling them how No Labels
just patterns to discover the other one
says supervised learning is used for
image recognition and the other one for
language translation which isn't really
true it's this is more about labeled
versus unlabeled data not what kind of
problems they solve and then D says
supervised learning is deterministic
while unsupervised is
non-deterministic nope both of them can
use both behaviors so that's really not
the key difference here well that's it
for question two thanks for watching and
see you next time
