hi guys this is apeksha from simply
learn and today we are going to talk
about the two types of machine learning
supervised and unsupervised learning
their types and applications but before
we talk about them let's quickly
understand what is machine learning
these days applications use artificial
intelligence and machine learning to
optimize speech recognition i usually
ask siri things i want to know like hey
siri how far is the nearest subway so
whenever we ask something to siri a
powerful speech recognition kicks off
and converts the audio into its
corresponding textual form which is then
sent to the apple servers for further
processing then neural language
processing algorithms are run to
understand the user's intent and then
finally siri tells you the answer well
this is what machine learning is all
about making the machines learn and act
like humans by feeding them with data
and information without being explicitly
programmed as we saw in the previous
example when the data comes in machines
immediately starts analyzing the data
and eventually gets trained on it and
learns it now when a new data point
comes in machine accurately makes
prediction and decisions based on the
past data now that you know what is
machine learning let's talk about
supervised and unsupervised learning
supervised learning as the name suggests
works under supervision that is it's
learning in which machine is trained
with data which is well labeled and then
predicts with the help of the label data
set but what is a label data set data
for which you already know the target
answer is called a label data like i
show you an image and tell you that it's
a dog then it's a label data while if i
show you an image without telling you
what exactly it is then it's an
unlabeled data now let's say we have
images which are labeled as spoon or
knife we then feed it to the machine
which analyzes and learns the
association of these images with its
labels based on its features such as
shape size sharpness etc now when a new
image is fed to the machine without any
label with the help of the past data the
machine is able to predict accurately
and tell that it's a spoon hence in
supervised machine learning the
algorithm teaches the model to learn
from the labeled example that we provide
so supervised learning can be further
divided into classification and
regression it is a classification
problem when the output variable is
categoric such as red or blue disease or
no disease male or female whereas it's a
regression problem when the output
variable is a real or continuous value
for example salary based on work
experience weight based on height so it
creates a predictive model showing
trends and data so now if i say will i
get a salary raise or not that's
classification but if i say how much
salary raise will i get that is
regression now let's understand
classification with the help of an
example in order to predict whether an
email is a spam or not first we need to
teach our machine what a spam mail looks
like this is done based on a lot of spam
filters like firstly reviewing the
content of the email then review the
email header and search if it contains
any falsified information this is done
based on some keywords like free
lottery
price claim etc then general blacklist
filters to stop emails that come from
already blacklisted known spammers and
etc so all these filters scores the
email which is known as spam score the
lower the total spam score of the email
it is more likely that the email will
land in subscribers in boxes so based on
the content labels and spam score of the
new incoming mail the algorithm decides
whether it should land in inbox or the
spam folder
now let's quickly understand regression
so let's say we have two variables that
is temperature and humidity where
temperature is the independent variable
and humidity is the dependent variable
such that as the temperature increases
humidity decreases hence they are
correlated when we feed this data to a
regression model it will understand the
relationship between these two variables
and how one variable depends on the
other after the machine is trained it
can easily predict the humidity based on
the given temperature
well that was about regression now let's
see some real life applications where
supervised learning is used so
supervised learning is used in risk
assessment to assess risk in financial
services or an insurance domain to
minimize the risk portfolio of the
companies image classification facebook
recognizes your friend in a picture from
an album of tagged photos so image
classification is one of the key use
cases of demonstrating supervised
machine learning algorithms obviously a
lot more goes into all these like
convolutional neural networks etc fraud
detection whether the transactions made
by the user are authentic or not and
visual recognition the ability of a
machine learning model to identify
objects places people and actions and
images now let's quickly talk about
unsupervised learning in unsupervised
learning there is no supervision that is
no training will be given to the machine
allowing it to act on the data which is
not labeled hence machine tries to
identify patterns and gives the response
let's take a similar example as before
but this time we do not tell the machine
whether it's a spoon or a knife the
machine identifies patterns from the
given set and groups them based on their
patterns similarities etc again
unsupervised learning can be further
grouped into clustering and association
clustering is basically where the
machine forms groups based on the
behavior of the data secondly
association it is a rule-based machine
learning to discover interesting
relation between variables in large data
sets for example which customer made
similar product purchases is clustering
whereas association is which products
were purchased together now let's
understand clustering with the help of
an example to reduce their churn rate a
telecom company studies the behavior of
the customers based on average call
duration and internet usage and observes
that while some customers call duration
is quite high others have heavy internet
usage the customers are grouped based on
their observed behavior and a strategy
is adopted to minimize churn rate and
maximize profit via suitable promotions
and campaigns
as you can see in the chart on the right
hand side customers in group a uses more
data and also have high quality group b
customers are heavy internet users while
group c customers have high call
duration so group b will be given more
data benefit plans while group c will be
given cheaper call rates to buy their
loyalty so this was the example of
clustering now let's understand
association with another example let's
say customer one goes to a supermarket
and buys these products say bread milk
fruits wheat then customer 2 goes and
buys bread milk rice and butter
now when customer 3 goes and buys bread
it is highly likely that he will also
buy milk hence relationship is
established based on customer behavior
and recommendations are made now let's
look at some real-life applications of
unsupervised learning market basket
analysis is a machine learning model
based on the algorithm that if you buy a
certain group of items you are less more
likely to buy another group of items
semantic clustering semantically similar
words share similar context people post
their queries on websites in their own
ways semantic clustering groups all
responses in a cluster with same meaning
to ensure that the customer finds the
information they want quickly and easily
it plays an important role in
information retrieval good browsing
experience and comprehension delivery
store optimization machine learning
models are used to predict the demand
and keep up with the supply also to open
stores where demand is more and
optimizing routes for more efficient
deliveries according to past data and
behavior we can also use unsupervised
machine learning models to identify
accident prone areas based on the
intensity of those accidents and the
area in order to introduce safety
measures by now i hope you've understood
supervised and unsupervised learning for
a quick recap let's see a few
differences between the two the most
fundamental difference is that
supervised learning uses known and
labeled data and unsupervised learning
uses unlabeled data as their input
secondly supervised learning follows a
feedback mechanism while unsupervised
learning does not also the most commonly
used algorithms in supervised learning
are decision tree logistic regression
support vector machine etc and at
unsupervised learning their k-means
clustering hierarchical clustering a
priori algorithm and many more so that's
all for supervised and supervised
learning keep watching this space for
more such videos you can also visit
www.simplylearn.com or comment below if
you have any questions thank you and
have a great day
hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learn youtube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos turn it up and get certified
click here
