hi everyone welcome to the first video
of this course in this video we will
focus on unsupervised learning business
problems that are solved using such
techniques and basic plotting of points
that would help us later in the course
let's get started while browsing through
Google News have you wondered one goes
behind grouping news items together how
does the algorithm decide which articles
are similar it is the result of an
unsupervised learning algorithm it scans
through the text of each article and
based on frequently occurring terms
groups articles together the group of
articles shown here is based on the
Indian cricket team through this course
you will be introduced to various
clustering techniques similar to this
example you will also perform document
clustering on texts before we define
unsupervised learning let us try to
understand the terms labeled and
unlabeled data imagine you have a list
of points with x and y coordinates
if only the coordinates of the points
are available and there is no other
characteristic available to distinguish
the data points it is called unlabeled
data at the same time if we associate
each data point with a group beforehand
say normal and dangerous zones we call
it label data what is unsupervised
learning it is an umbrella term for a
group of machine learning algorithms
that I used to find patterns the data
that is used and these algorithms is not
labeled classified or characterized
prior to running the algorithm the
algorithm is run therefore to find an
explained inherent structures within the
data common unsupervised learning
algorithms are clustering anomaly
detection and neural networks clustering
is used to group similar data points
let us now move on for specific class of
unsupervised learning algorithms
clustering is the process of grouping
items with similar characteristics the
group's so formed are such that items in
a single group are closer to each other
in terms of some characteristics as
compared to items in other clusters
clustering falls under the group of
unsupervised learning algorithms as the
data is not labeled grouped or
characterized beforehand a simple
example to demonstrate clustering would
be to group points on a 2d plane based
on the distance let us try to visualize
it in Python to make a scatter plot we
will use the PI plot class of the
matplotlib library in Python we will
plot the sightings of Pokemon in a park
in the form of coordinates the first
step therefore is to import the required
class as PLT next we define the
coordinates of points to be plotted in
two lists one each for x and y
coordinates in this case we have 15
sightings that we would like to plot
finally we use the scatter method of the
PI plot class with the lists of the
coordinates as arguments and the plot
method to display the plot let us see
how the plot looks
here is how the plot looks like as a
preliminary analysis before you perform
any clustering on the points visualizing
helps you understand how many natural
clusters are present in the data there
are three clusters in the data which are
highlighted in the plot by visualizing
this data you can infer with some
confidence where the Pokemon actually
are although this is a simplified case
real-life problems may not have an
obvious solution and you may have to
employ more analysis to decipher how
many clusters there actually are which
you will learn later in the course it is
time for some exercises based
