unsupervised learning is a technique
used in the field of artificial
intelligence it allows computers to find
patterns in information without anyone
telling it what to look for in
supervised learning the computer needs
to be told what to do and given
information to work with but with
unsupervised learning it has to figure
it out all on its own it uses something
called clustering algorithms to group
things that are similar this can reveal
patterns that that we might not see
right away the computer groups things
creating clusters that reveal hidden
patterns and insights for example if a
store wants to know what its customers
like to buy unsupervised learning can
help by tracking and grouping their
spending patterns the store can use this
information to make better ads or create
more appealing sale offers unsupervised
learning is even being used in outer
space it helps scientists analyze
information collect Ed by telescopes
this is helping them uncover new
patterns and structures in the universe
this revolutionary technique in AI can
help us to make new discoveries and see
things in new ways it allows us to find
hidden patterns and new relationships
that can improve our understanding of
the world and Beyond to learn more about
AI check out our website at GCF
global.org
[Music]
GCF Global creating opportunities for a
better life
