hello everyone welcome to this tutorial
by simply learn in this video you will
learn about an interesting machine
learning topic that is supervised versus
unsupervised versus reinforcement
learning let's discuss each of them in
detail and understand when to use these
algorithms along with their applications
now there are a number of algorithms
used in the field of machine learning to
solve complex problems
each of these algorithms can be
classified into a certain category so
the different types of machine learning
algorithms are supervised learning
unsupervised learning and reinforcement
learning now let's look at the
definition of each of these learning
techniques supervised learning uses
labeled data to train machine learning
models label data means that the output
is already known to you the model just
needs to map the inputs to the outputs
an example of supervised learning can be
to train a machine that identifies the
image of an animal below you can see we
have a trained model that identifies the
picture of a cat unsupervised learning
uses unlabelled data to train machines
unlabeled data means there is no fixed
output variable the model learns from
the data discovers patterns and features
in the data and Returns the output here
is an example of an unsupervised
learning technique that uses the images
of vehicles to classify if it's a bus or
a truck so the model learns by
identifying the paths of a vehicle such
as the length and width of the vehicle
the front and rear end covers roof hoods
the types of Wheels used Etc based on
these features the model classifies if
the vehicle is a bus or a
truck reinforcement learning trains a
machine to take suitable actions and
maximize reward in a particular
situation it uses an agent and an
environment to produce actions and
rewards the agent has a start and an end
state but there might be different parts
for reaching the end State like a maze
in this learning technique there is no
predefined target variable an example of
reinforcement learning is to train a
machine that can identify the shape of
an object given a list of different
objects such as square triangle
rectangle or a circle in the example
shown the model tries to predict the
shape of the object which is a square
here now let's look at the different
machine learning algorithms that come
under these learning techniques some of
the commonly used supervised learning
algorithms are linear regression
logistic regression support Vector
machines K nearest neighbors decision
tree random forest and knife
base examples of unsupervised learning
algorithms are K means clustering
hierarchical clustering DB scan
principal component analysis and others
choosing the right algorithm depends on
the type of problem you're trying to
solve some of the important
reinforcement learning algorithms are
are Q learning Monte Carlo sarsa and
deep Q Network now let's look at the
approach in which these machine learning
techniques
work so supervised learning takes
labeled inputs and Maps it to known
outputs which means you already know the
target
variable unsupervised learning finds
patterns and understands the trends in
the data to discover the output so the
model tries to label the data based on
the features of the input
data while reinforcement learning
follows trial and error method to get
the desired solution after accomplishing
a task the agent receives an award an
example could be to train a dog to catch
the ball if the dog learns to catch a
ball you give it a reward such as a
biscuit now let's discuss the training
process for each of these learning
methods so supervised learning methods
need external supervision to train
machine learning models and hence the
name supervised they need guidance and
additional information to return the
result unsupervised learning techniques
do not need any supervision to train
models they learn on their own and
predict the output similarly
reinforcement learning methods do not
need any supervision to train machine
learning models and with that let's
focus on the types of problems that can
be solved using these three types of
machine learning techniques so
supervised learning is generally used
for classification and regression
problems we'll see the examples in the
next SL
slide and unsupervised learning is used
for clustering and Association problems
while reinforcement learning is reward
based so for every task or for every
step completed there will be a reward
received by the agent and if the task is
not achieved correctly there will be
some penalty
used now let's look at a few
applications of supervised unsupervised
and reinforcement
learning as we saw earlier supervised
learning learning are used to solve
classification and regression problems
for example You can predict the weather
for a particular day based on humidity
precipitation wind speed and pressure
values you can use supervised learning
algorithms to forecast sales for the
next month or the next quarter for
different products similarly you can use
it for stock price analysis or
identifying if a cancer cell is
malignant or
benign now talking about the
applications of unsupervised learning we
have customer segmentation so based on
customer Behavior likes dislikes and
interests you can segment and cluster
similar customers into a group another
example where unsupervised learning
algorithms are used as customer churn
analysis now let's see what applications
we have in reinforcement learning so
reinforcement learning algorithms are
widely used in the gaming Industries to
build games it is also used to train
robots to perform human
tasks and with that we have come to the
end of this video on supervised vers
vers unsupervised versus reinforcement
learning I hope you like this video If
you enjoyed watching this video then
please subscribe to the simply learn
Channel and hit the Bell icon to never
miss an update thank you for watching
and keep
learning hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learn YouTube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos turn up and get certified click
here
