welcome back to another machine learning
explained video by assembly ai in this
video we talk about supervised learning
which is arguably the most important
type of machine learning you will learn
what it means examples of supervised
learning or this data and training types
of supervised learning and we touch on
specific algorithms of supervised
learning let's begin with the very
basics what does machine learning mean
machine learning is a sub-area of
artificial intelligence and it's the
study of algorithms that give computers
the ability to learn and make decisions
based on data and not from explicit
instructions a popular example is
learning to predict whether an email is
spam or no spam by reading many
different emails of these two types we
typically differentiate between three
types of machine learning supervised
learning unsupervised learning and
reinforcement learning in supervised
learning the computer learns by making
use of labeled data so we know the
corresponding label or target of our
data an example is again the spam
prediction algorithm where we show many
different emails to the computer and for
each email we know if this was a spam
email or not on the other hand in
unsupervised learning the computer
learns by making use of unlabeled data
so we have data but we don't know the
corresponding target an example is to
cluster books into different categories
on the basis of the title and other book
information but not by knowing its
actual category and then there is also
reinforcement learning where so-called
intelligent software agents take actions
in an environment and automatically try
to improve its behavior this usually
works with a system of rewards and
punishments and popular examples are
games for example a computer can learn
to be good in the snake game only by
playing the game itself and every time
it eats an apple or it dies it learns
from this actions now in this video we
are going to focus on supervised
learning where we learn from labeled
data now what is data
data can be any relevant information we
collect for our algorithm this can be
for example user information like age
and gender or text data or images or
information within an image like
measurements or color information the
possibilities are endless here let's
look at a concrete example in the
popular iris flower data set we want to
predict the type of iris flower based on
different measurements we have 150
records of flowers with different
attributes that have been measured
before so for each flower we have the
sepal length saypal width petal length
and petal width these are called the
features and we also have the
corresponding species this is called the
class the label or the target so this is
a supervised case where we know the
label we can represent this table in a
mathematical way so we put each feature
into a vector this is the feature vector
and then we do this for all the
different samples and when we do this
for all the different samples we end up
in a 2d representation which is also
called a matrix additionally we can put
all labels into one vector this is
called the target vector now in
supervised learning we take the features
and the labels and show it to the
computer so that it learns
we call this the training step and the
data we use is called the training data
training is performed by specific
algorithms that usually try to minimize
an error during this training process
and this is done by mathematical
optimization methods which i won't go
into more detail here after training we
want to show new data to the computer
that it has never seen before and where
we don't know the label this is called
our test data and now the trained
computer should be able to make a
decision based on the information it has
seen and determine the correct target
value
and this is how supervised learning
works there are two types of supervised
learning classification and regression
in classification we predict a discrete
class label in the previous flower
classification example our target values
can only have the values 0 1 and 2
corresponding to the three different
classes if we have more than two
possible labels like here we call this a
multi-class classification problem if we
only have two labels usually zero and
one is used then we call this a binary
classification problem for example spam
or no spam on the other hand in
regression we try to predict a
continuous target value meaning the
target value can have a more or less
arbitrary value one example is to
predict house prices based on given
information about the house and the
neighborhood
the target variable which is the price
can basically have any value here now
that we know what supervised learning
means let's have a look at concrete
algorithms i will not explain them in
detail here i simply name them so that
you have heard of them they all have a
unique design and can be different in
the way how it stores the information
mathematically how it solves the
training process through mathematical
operations and how it transforms the
data this list is not exhaustive but
here are 10 algorithms that are nice to
know some of them can be used for either
regression or classification and some
can even be used for both cases popular
algorithms are linear regression
logistic regression decision trees
random forest naive bayes perceptron and
multi-layer perceptron support vector
machines or short svm k-nearest
neighbors or short knn adaboost and
neural networks which are part of the
deep learning field
alright i hope you enjoyed this video if
you did so then please hit the like
button and consider subscribing to the
channel also if you want to try assembly
ai for free then grab your free api
token using the link in the description
below and then i hope to see you in the
next video bye
