[Music]
in this video we'll be discussing the
concept of semi-supervised learning
semi-supervised learning kind of takes a
middle ground between supervised
learning and unsupervised learning as a
quick refresher recall from previous
videos that supervised learning is the
learning that occurs during training of
an artificial neural network when the
data in our training set is labeled
unsupervised learning on the other hand
is the learning that occurs when the
data in our training set is not labeled
so now onto semi-supervised learning
semi-supervised learning uses a
combination of supervised and
unsupervised learning techniques and
that's because in a scenario where we'd
make use of semi-supervised learning
we'd have a combination of both labeled
and unlabeled data let's expand on this
idea with an example say we have access
to a large unlabeled data set that we'd
like to train a model on and that
manually labeling all of the state
ourselves is just not practical well we
could go through and manually label some
portion of this large data set ourselves
and use that portion to train our model
and this is fine in fact this is how a
lot of data use for neural networks
becomes labeled but you know if we have
access to large amounts of data and
we've only labeled some small portion of
the data then what a waste it would be
to just leave all the other unlabeled
data on the table I mean after all we
know the more data we have to train a
model on the better and more robust our
model will be so what can we do to make
use of the remaining unlabeled data in
our data set well one thing we can do is
implement a technique that falls under
the category of semi-supervised learning
called pseudo labeling this is how
pseudo labeling works so as just
mentioned we've already labeled some
portion of our data set now we're going
to use this label data as the training
set for our model we're then going to
train our model just as we would with
any other labelled data set okay and
then just through the regular training
process we get our model performing
pretty well so everything we've done up
to this point has been just regular old
supervised learning in practice now
here's where the unsupervised learning
piece comes into play after we've
trained our model on the labeled portion
of the data set
we then use our model to predict on the
remaining unlabeled portion of data we
then take these predictions and label
each piece of unlabeled data with the
individual outputs that were predicted
for them this process of labeling the
unlabeled data with the output that was
predicted by our neural network is the
very essence of pseudo labeling now
after labeling the unlabeled data
through this pseudo labeling process we
then train our model on the full data
set which is now comprised of both the
data that was actually truly labeled
along with the data that was pseudo
labeled through the use of pseudo
labeling were able to train on a vastly
larger data set we're also able to train
on data that otherwise may have
potentially taken many tedious hours of
human labor to manually label the data
as you can imagine sometimes the cost of
acquiring or generating a fully label
data set is just too high or the pure
act of generating all the labels itself
is just not feasible so through this
process we can see how this approach
makes use of both supervised learning
with the labeled data and unsupervised
learning with the unlabeled data which
together give us the practice of
semi-supervised learning so hopefully
now you have an understanding of what
semi-supervised learning is and how you
may apply it and practice through the
use of pseudo labeling and I hope you
found this video helpful if you did
please like the video subscribe suggest
and comment and thanks for watching
[Music]
