this is jim he is an accountant in a
multinational company he handles several
invoices and other financial records
like monetary transactions liabilities
checks and ledgers on a daily basis one
of his tasks is to copy all the relevant
information from these invoices such as
the name of the company invoice id and
data processing into a spreadsheet and
mail the sheet along with other
financial reports to his superiors by
the end of the day as any prompt
employee he transfers all the
information to the sheet attaches the
reports and sends them over to his boss
via email every day but over a period he
starts finding this task to be time
consuming and repetitive frustrated jim
looks for a way to reduce the time and
effort it takes to complete the task and
voila he stumbles across robotic process
automation aka rpa using robotic process
automation he builds a simple bot that
extracts information from several
invoices into an excel sheet attaches
all the necessary financial reports and
sends them over to his superiors via
email at a specific time every day
so what exactly is robotic process
automation robotic process automation
rpa is the use of software with
artificial intelligence and machine
learning capabilities to handle high
volume repetitive tasks that previously
required humans to perform some of these
tasks include addressing queries making
calculations maintenance of records and
performing transactions
there are several misconceptions about
rpa rpa is not a humanoid robot it does
not have a physical form and no
resemblance to humans
rpa cannot replace humans or replicate
human cognitive functions it does not
have a brain of its own
and cannot perform logical or critical
thinking as humans do the working of rpa
includes four crucial phases one the
planning phase typically involves
gathering the processes to be automated
identifying the test objects and
finalizing the implementation approach
two the development phase includes the
creation of automation workflows as per
the agreed plan
three deployment and testing is a vital
phase
since it uncovers any unexpected outages
and ensures a bug-free product
four
lastly there's the support and
maintenance phase
which ensures that the product is
continuously updated with smooth
deployment across the user base to meet
the objectives of rpa tools are used
these rpa tools are software
applications that can configure tasks
and automate them
some of the popular rpa tools in the
market are uipath automation anywhere
blue prism work fusion pega and redwood
among others when it comes to quality
rpa ensures consistent error-free output
leading to reduced operational risks
this in turn improves customer
satisfaction
in the area of delivery rpa can help
decrease the average handling time and
this enhances the customer experience
and ensures 24 7 business continuity
with respect to cost according to nascom
domestic businesses can reduce the cost
by up to 65 percent through rpa
it offers a higher roi by driving
positive returns within quarters as
opposed to years
other advantages of rpa include reduced
training costs minimal utilization of
i.t resources and easier software
migration
today many domains and industries like
banking and finance i t integration
processes human resources insurance
agencies marketing and sales and
customer relationship management readily
deploy rpa
rpa service adoption has been showing
tremendous growth since 2016
and will continue to increase beyond
2020. according to mckenzie's research
knowledge and work automation could have
an economic impact of 5 to 7 trillion
dollars by the year 2025. it will impact
more than 230 million knowledge workers
which constitute nine percent of the
global workforce
any company which is labor intensive
where people are performing high volume
high transaction functions stand to
benefit the most with rpa adoption
boosting their capabilities and saving
money and time
now that we've discussed what rpa is and
isn't here's a question for you which of
the following is not an rpa use case 1.
email query processing 2. data
extraction
3. image recognition
4. payroll processing
give it a thought and leave your answers
in the comments section below three
lucky winners will receive amazon gift
vouchers
rpa offers the ability to automate
business processes quickly and easily it
pays the way for digital transformation
by placing automation tools at the
user's disposal so what are you waiting
for
get certified and become an rpa
developer to build a bright future in
the field of automation
if you enjoyed this video a thumbs up
would be really appreciated don't forget
to subscribe to the simply learn channel
and hit the bell icon to never miss an
update on the latest trending
technologies
thank you for watching and stay tuned
for more from simplylearn
you
