[Music]
hey everyone welcome to this crash
course on robotic process automation aka
rpa
before we begin let me walk you through
the content it's going to cover first we
look at a quick introduction to rpa
then i'll help you understand the top
reasons to learn rpa
moving on we'll work hands-on with the
help of two tutorials on uipath followed
by which we look at a detailed
comparison between blue prism uipath and
automation anywhere
i will also guide you through the
correct path you could take to become an
rpa developer and brief you about salary
and skills
and lastly we look at the top interview
questions that will help you crack your
next rpa interview and all of this under
2 hours
so without further ado let's begin but
before that if you wish to keep yourself
updated with all the cutting edge
technologies then subscribe to our
channel and hit the bell icon
this is jim he is an accountant in a
multinational company he handles several
invoices and other financial records
like monetary transactions liabilities
checks and ledgers on a daily basis one
of his tasks is to copy all the relevant
information from these invoices such as
the name of the company invoice id and
data processing into a spreadsheet and
mail the sheet along with other
financial reports to his superiors by
the end of the day as any prompt
employee he transfers all the
information to the sheet attaches the
reports and sends them over to his boss
via email every day
but over a period he starts finding this
task to be time consuming and repetitive
frustrated jim looks for a way to reduce
the time and effort it takes to complete
the task and voila he stumbles across
robotic process automation aka rpa using
robotic process automation he builds a
simple bot that extracts information
from several invoices into an excel
sheet attaches all the necessary
financial reports and sends them over to
his superiors via email at a specific
time every day
so what exactly is robotic process
automation
robotic process automation rpa is the
use of software with artificial
intelligence and machine learning
capabilities to handle high-volume
repetitive tasks that previously
required humans to perform some of these
tasks include addressing queries making
calculations maintenance of records and
performing transactions there are
several misconceptions about rpa rpa is
not a humanoid robot it does not have a
physical form and no resemblance to
humans rpa cannot replace humans or
replicate human cognitive functions it
does not have a brain of its own
and cannot perform logical or critical
thinking as humans do the working of rpa
includes four crucial phases
one the planning phase typically
involves gathering the processes to be
automated identifying the test objects
and finalizing the implementation
approach
two the development phase includes the
creation of automation workflows as per
the agreed plan
three deployment and testing is a vital
phase
since it uncovers any unexpected outages
and ensures a bug-free product
four
lastly there's the support and
maintenance phase which ensures that the
product is continuously updated with
smooth deployment across the user base
to meet the objectives of rpa tools are
used
these rpa tools are software
applications that can configure tasks
and automate them
some of the popular rpa tools in the
market are uipath automation anywhere
blue prism work fusion pega and redwood
among others when it comes to quality
rpa ensures consistent error-free output
leading to reduced operational risks
this in turn improves customer
satisfaction
in the area of delivery rpa can help
decrease the average handling time and
this enhances the customer experience
and ensures 24 7 business continuity
with respect to cost according to nascom
domestic businesses can reduce the cost
by up to 65
through rpa
it offers a higher roi by driving
positive returns within quarters as
opposed to years other advantages of rpa
include reduced training costs minimal
utilization of i.t resources and easier
software migration
today many domains and industries like
banking and finance i.t integration
processes human resources insurance
agencies marketing and sales and
customer relationship management readily
deploy rpa
rpa service adoption has been showing
tremendous growth since 2016 and will
continue to increase beyond 2020.
according to mckenzie's research
knowledge and work automation could have
an economic impact of five to seven
trillion dollars by the year 2025
it will impact more than 230 million
knowledge workers which constitute nine
percent of the global workforce
any company which is labor intensive
where people are performing high volume
high transaction functions stand to
benefit the most with rpa adoption
boosting their capabilities and saving
money and time
now in today's video we're going to be
learning all about robotic process
automation so if you're new to this
topic then this session will definitely
help you understand rpa better so
without further ado let's jump in and
look at what's in store for us so the
topics we're going to be covering in
this session are why rpa automation
versus rpa what is rpa what is not rpa
features benefits types some of our pa
software tools its services some of the
industries adopting rpa and its growth
projections so let's begin by
understanding the necessity of rpa now
imagine having to solve complex
mathematical problems manually it's
possible but not all that easy to make
life a little easier calculators were
invented they proved to be accurate easy
and time-saving however these
conventional calculators need human
input now this is partial automation so
does a calculator qualify to fall under
the rpa framework well no robotic
process automation on the other hand
would be completely automating the
working of a calculator where it
requires zero human interaction now
let's compare traditional automation
with rpa consider an invoice processing
software now this software would
automatically generate these invoices in
a strategic manner however the
processing requires human interaction on
the other hand to ensure complete
end-to-end automation rpa plays the key
role rpa is an approach that allows one
to automate the manual interactions in a
known process traditional automation
involves programming apis and
integration tools to integrate different
systems rp on the other hand mimics the
actions of a user at the user interface
level these actions could be mouse
clicks or keystrokes since the developer
directly interacts with the software he
must have a clear understanding of the
target system in case of automation but
that's not the case in rpa as long as
the bot can exactly follow the steps the
developer need not worry about the
underlying complexities so let's move
ahead and understand what is rpa rpa is
the use of software with ai and machine
learning capabilities now these
softwares handle high volume repeated
tasks that previously required humans to
perform now rba approach sticks to the
front end only making it easier for its
users so rpa basically is a
configuration that automates repetitive
tasks some of these tasks could be
answering queries making calculations
maintaining records or even handling
transactions to give you an example
consider an employee handling invoices
in a company now his duty would include
printing these invoices for audit
purposes now doing this regularly proves
to be strenuous and monotonous rpa helps
overcome this it can be used to open the
invoice mail from the supplier extract
the invoice and print it for records all
of which requires zero effort from the
employee now i'm sure you'll understand
rpa better with a small demonstration
now consider you have to display a
welcome message on a regular basis now
instead of manually typing it every time
you definitely want to automate it for
this purpose we make use of an rpa tool
called ui paths now don't worry we'll
learn about this later in the session ui
path studio is a tool used to develop
rpa bots for specific functions now let
me navigate to my ui path studio and
here i'll create a new project let me
call it
message 101 i'll say create
all right so this is how the ui path
studio looks let me get rid of this and
here you have various activities that
you can perform so a sequence is
basically a set of activities that is
defined in a particular order it also
executes in that particular order so
what i can do is i can drag and drop
this here and within the sequence i drag
and drop my activity so i want to
display a message so i drag the message
box and drop it here the message that i
want to display must be quoted within
double quotes so i say hello welcome to
rpa tutorial and i save it and after
that i run it so once i do that it has
to display the message on my screen so
let's see if it does that voila here we
go you can see the message being
displayed so this was a simple example
of how rpa works using this tool you can
practically automate complex
functionalities we learn all about ui
path in detail in the upcoming videos so
stay tuned for that moving ahead let's
see some of the common misconceptions
about rpa rpa is not a humanoid robot
certain dynamic applications and
processes that require human actions
cannot be completely automated rpa can
also not replace humans it can only be
used for known processes it doesn't have
a brain of its own and cannot perform
human-like activities and lastly it
cannot replicate human cognitive
functions it definitely lacks logical
thinking and does not possess decision
making skills let's look at some of the
key features of rpa a rich analytical
suite now most enterprise level rpa
monitors and manages automated functions
from a central console now this console
can be accessed from anywhere and offers
basic metrics on robots servers
workflows etc now this solution of rpa
requires no integration since everything
is inbuilt creation of bots now rpa
tools allow quick creation of bots by
capturing mouse clicks and keystrokes
with built-in screen recorder components
now many rpa products include the option
to create and edit bots manually with
the help of a task editor scriptless
automation now rpa tools are code free
and can automate applications in any
department employees with less
programming skills can create bots
through guise or graphical user
interface now this feature reduces the
amount of hand code writing and improves
the rate of delivery next up we have
security rpa tools enable the
configuration as well as customization
of encryption methods now this helps
defend against any interruption in the
network hosting and deployment rba
systems can automatically deploy bots in
groups of hundreds hence rpa bots can be
installed on desktops and deployed on
servers to access data for repetitive
tasks lastly we have debugging some rpa
tools require to stop running to rectify
the errors while other tools allow
dynamic interaction while debugging now
this dynamic approach allows to develop
on the go and to resolve issues in a
runtime environment without changing the
process now let's look at some of the
benefits of rpa reduces cost one of the
most important advantages of rpa is the
quick reduction in cost by automating
tasks the cost saving of almost 30
percent can be achieved software robots
also cost way less than a full-time
employee reduces operational risk
various companies generally prefer to
outsource busy work to external parties
now this comes with an inherent risk of
human errors and inefficiency rpa brings
forth a better solution and since the
work stays in-house there is less
operational risk quality and accuracy
rpa offers services to processes with
high probability of human errors thereby
increasing accuracy robots are reliable
and consistent and don't complain when
expected to work tirelessly scalability
with the help of rpa companies can make
adjustments based on seasonality and can
easily scale up or down operations as
needed moving on let's learn about the
types of rpa first up we have unattended
or autonomous rpa now these are ideally
used for reducing work like completing
data processing tasks in the background
now these bots can be generally launched
at specific intervals or they can be
bought initiated or they can be
initiated when there's a data input
second up we have attended rpa now these
bots live on the user's machines and are
triggered by the user so some sort of
human interaction is required they are
usually launched when they're embedded
on the employee's device or they can be
authored based on conditions or they can
be initiated with the help of an rpa
client tool thirdly we have hybrid rpa
as the name suggests it's a combination
of attended and unattended rpa these
bots address front and back office tasks
in the enterprise next up we have rpa
software tools now robotic process tools
are used for the automation of
repetitive back office processes now
there are numerous rpa tools available
in the market some of them are
automation anywhere uipath blue prism
pega and work fusion among others in the
upcoming videos we'll discuss some of
these tools in detail watch out for that
moving on let's look at some of the rpa
services now these rpa services
generally include common business
processes like opening emails and
attachments filling in forms and moving
folders follow if then rules connect to
system apis extract structured data from
documents make complex calculations
monitor manual processes and learn how
to perform them example machine learning
copy and paste read and write to
databases scrap data from documents log
into web or enterprise applications and
so on now that we have a clear idea on
what rpa is let's go ahead and look at
some of the industries adopting rpa
first up we have banking and finance rpa
has been a boon to the finance industry
with its significant impact on reducing
considerable work volumes human
resources typically with hr processes
witnessing a high volume of repetitive
tasks the rpa could significantly
improve the rate efficiency and cost
effectiveness in the functions it can be
used to run tasks in careers and
learning talent acquisition etc
marketing and sales rpa is helping
organizations in building the sales
pipeline and engaging with their
customers more efficiently i.t
integration processes rpa can be used to
integrate legacy and newer systems in
automation endeavors insurance agencies
rpa has empowered insurers in building a
high growth responsive business while
optimizing cost lastly we have customer
relationship management rpa software can
automatically keep your crm maintained
with the most up-to-date and accurate
information lastly let's look at the rpa
growth projections and its future both
rpa software and services increased by
huge amounts between 2016 and 2021 and
beyond according to mckinsey research
knowledge and work automation could have
an economic impact of five to seven
trillion dollars by the year 2025. it
will touch more than 230 million
knowledge workers which is almost nine
percent of the global workforce any
company which is labor intensive where
people are performing high volume high
transaction functions will boost their
capabilities and save money and time
with rpa
so why is rpa gaining popularity so
rapidly and why do companies and techies
have rpa perspectives
so here are the 10 reasons why one
should learn rpa
so number 10 fast implementation
now getting data entry bots up and
running
goes quickly
implementing a new rpa software system
certainly happens much faster than
training a new person
you can have these data entry bots up
and running in just days
in contrast if you wanted to hire a new
human employee you'd be taking a lot of
time in sorting out resumes conducting
interviews going through the entire
boring hiring process and then finally
when you find the right person you'd
have to spend time and energy on
training them
however in case of rpa all of this is
countered
and number nine we have no training time
so now this is an important one
if your process changes and the bots
need to learn something new you can
either replace them with new bots or
alter their programming
now that again goes much faster than
training employees for new tasks
in terms of costs training an employee
for a new task will pan out to be way
more expensive and time consuming
next up the bots will never quit
now with rpa you don't have to worry
about employees quitting or dealing with
the turnover
bots don't care how hard they're working
or how boring their job is or how
repeatedly they're doing the same tasks
again yes it would be ironic if the bots
got tired
software bots can work all the time 24
hours a day every single day of the year
at 100 capacity
now rpa doesn't take holidays it doesn't
have sick needs and of course they do
not have unproductive days at all
well isn't that a treat to have someone
who never retires or decides it's time
to move to a different job
next up minimal i.t resources
maintaining software bots requires
minimal i.t resources
in some cases
it doesn't id doesn't need to get
involved at all
your rpa systems will be managed by the
software provider
they're responsible for maintenance and
updates all of that
it completely takes the burden off it
and saves your company a whole lot of
money
roi is visible
now every organization wants to quantify
their gains
many of these organizations do not know
how they should determine their roi
but when it comes to adopting robotic
process automation roi is visible it
defines a clearer path to demonstrate
its returns
complex problems can be solved now as
our data sources and analytical
capabilities have grown so has the time
required to build various reports
robotic process automation system is
ideal for solution
to solve these types of problems
the system stores the information and it
can also remember and transform this
information very easily
that means this makes you auditable and
tax ready
software migration
now it's a fact that software migrations
are time consuming and costly
migrating to a new software could take
months and cost could turn out to be
tens or thousands of millions of dollars
what's even more frustrating is that at
all times
certain features and functionalities
which may have functioned in a
particular way in a previous
version may not even be present in the
updated version
so rpa helps with data migration with
accuracy speed and continuous updating
of software
rpa has a free tier
many rpa vendors offer free tiers
some of these vendors are blue prism
automation anywhere ui path among others
these rpa software vendors are offering
high
rpa software notably ui path with their
community edition and work fusion with
their rpa express
this helps lower the total cost of
ownership
there's no rip and replace
now rpa doesn't jeopardize an employee's
job but helps with the growth of new
jobs to do your work you need some
additional software yes and virtual
machines to deploy fully independent
digital bots
but you may not need to rip and replace
your existing infrastructures
also there's a common misconception that
rpa could steal our jobs
well that's not true
monitoring and controlling these bots
are completely the responsibilities of
the developer
as a result rpa does not pull down your
existing systems but it leverages them
lastly popularity and high salary
according to glassdoor the average
salary of an rpa developer in the us is
77 000 us dollars and in india
the beginning salary for an rpa
developer is around 4.65 lakhs per annum
top tier companies like dell
ibm accenture capgemini cognizant among
others are readily hiring rpa developers
now this is all you need to know about
why one should learn rpa
but if you're looking to become a
developer let's look at some of the job
roles and responsibilities rpa
developers are responsible for the
creation design development and
implementation of rpa systems
an rpa developer is expected
to provide guidance with process design
design develop test automation flip
workflows
deploy rpa components be it bots robots
or development tools
support the implementation of rpa
solutions
create process documentation
and also assure the quality of the
automation
now that we have a clear understanding
of what rpa is and what it's not you
must be wondering how it works so let's
have a closer look at its working
the first step towards any approach is
planning in this stage the processes to
be automated are defined which includes
identifying the test objects finalizing
an implementation approach and defining
a clear roadmap for the rpa
implementation next we have design and
development
as the name suggests in this phase you
start developing the automation
workflows as per the agreed plan third
is deployment and testing this phase
typically includes the execution of the
bots now any expected outages are to be
taken care of during the deployment to
ensure accurate functioning testing of
these bots for bugs and errors is
crucial
lastly is support and maintenance now
providing constant support helps in
identifying and rectifying the errors
better
moving on we have rpa software tools now
these tools typically help develop and
execute bots some of the rpa tools are
uipath blue prism automation anywhere
work fusion among others in this
tutorial we will execute a bot using the
uipath tool
before executing a demo test case let's
go ahead and understand what ui path is
and its interface
uipath is basically an advanced rpa tool
which allows you to create control and
execute front office and back office
bots with the help of visual templates
and diagrams now it also provides
end-to-end automation calling it hyper
automation uipath offers three different
product suites first up we have uipath
studio now it is a platform to create
automation bots it encompasses hundreds
of activity templates and ready made
components to drag and drop now some of
its features include gui dashboard which
basically consists of activities like
send email display message and so on it
offers different types of recorders to
record user actions on multiple
platforms it provides logging and
exceptional handling it also has
reusable components now the user can
create these reusable components to
publish them together as libraries the
next product suite is uipath robot now
they run automation bots that are
created using uipath studio there are
different types of robots firstly we
have the attended robots now these
robots work with you to speed up the
service desk and the help desk it's
basically used in activities where human
involvement is key next up we have
unattended robots now they operate
without the human touch maximizing the
cost and performance benefits for any
variety of back office tasks the third
product suite is the orchestrator now it
is a centralized robot management
dashboard where you can easily deploy
secure and manage your ui path robots at
scale now here's the course of action
the first step is that the user creates
a bot next the user has to save this
project and which is later used as a
process now once the process is created
it is assigned to a specific robot to
execute it this collectively constitutes
a job and all of which is taken care of
by the uipath orchestrator now let's
understand the uipath interface in brief
first up we have the recorder now as the
name suggests this component allows the
user to record all user actions such as
navigations clicks etc next up is
scraping now it involves two components
one is the screen scraping which is the
programmatic collection of visual data
and the other one is data scraping which
is the extraction of structured data
from an application user events now all
mouse clicks and keystrokes given by the
user as input are recorded using this
feature lastly we have variables now
variables are used primarily for using
certain features now these variables
hold different types of data and can
change over time all right now that we
have a fair understanding of ui path
let's go ahead and execute a simple test
case so here's what we're going to be
doing first we extract information about
books on the website that is
goodreads.com so what information are we
extracting so we're going to be
extracting the names and the authors of
the new released books then this
information is going to be stored in an
excel sheet and this excel sheet is
going to be sent over an email so let's
go ahead and execute the test case all
right so let's go ahead and open ui path
studio and here you go and click on new
process in the top right corner
all right and provide a name for it say
rpa
and i say create
so now this is going to create a
workspace for you this might take up a
few seconds
and this is what the typical uipath
studio interface looks like so moving
ahead we need to create a sequence of
activities so for that let's go ahead
and say new sequence to the top left
corner and provide a name for it i
choose to keep it sequence so i say
create
but what exactly is a sequence now
sequence is a set of activities so all
the activities mentioned in a sequence
are executed in the same order all right
so now in our use case we are going to
be scraping data from the goodreads.com
website right okay so now we'll have to
navigate to the goodreads.com website
and i've opened it in my browser
so here we've navigated to the most
popular books published in march 2020.
so now i have to extract data from this
right i need
two fields basically i need the name
of the book and the author
alright so what we're gonna do is we go
back to uipath studio and click on data
scraping
so go ahead and click on data scraping
and here it says open your browser or
application and wherever you want to
extract your data from and then we click
on next and then click on the field that
you want to select
so i say next and here i want just the
name right so i click on the name
and it says you selected an entire table
cell would you like to extract the data
from the whole table no i just want the
name of the table right so i say no
and now the next thing you need to do is
you have to create a pattern the tool
needs to understand what exactly you are
extracting so what we do is we have to
create a pattern
to do that we have to select a second
element so i say next again
and i click on the second name here i
say click and now the name of the column
that i want to give so i say books and i
say next
now so this is how it's going to look
this is the data preview
right so next we need the name of the
author so i say extract correlated data
here
so go ahead and click on that and now i
need the name so i say i click on sarah
j maas
and again to create a pattern i need to
select another element so i say next and
click on the next name of the author so
i click on this
and i
give the name author for this column all
right so i click on next
okay so this is how it's going to look
so after this i say finish
all right so now it's going to ask me if
data is spanning across multiple pages
now in our case if you look at this
page data is not spanning across
multiple pages say suppose you had one
two three four five saying there are
more books ahead then that would be data
spanning across multiple pages so that
is not the case here so i say no in our
case
and that is it
so we have scraped our data from the
website okay so now that we're done with
data scraping the information that has
been extracted has to be saved in a csv
file
so for that you have to create the file
so go to your activities and say write
csv all right so just drag and drop
the activity here
now it asks for two fields right so the
first one is a target field where the
information is stored so provide a name
for it for that let's go ahead and
browse it
and
in my case
i create a document say demo
one
underscore rpa
and save it
all right and the next field is the
write from field now the information
that you're storing in the csv file is
basically the output of data scraping so
that is all the information from the
data scripting event is stored in an
output variable
so click on that and here you see you
have an output variable so copy the
output variable ctrl c and then paste it
here
order now save the file and now let's
execute it to see if it successfully
works
so
go ahead and click on play
so all right it's completed the
execution so let's go ahead and check
if it has completed the execution
correctly so i go back to my documents
ui path and we have demo one underscore
rpa
open that
and
here we go
we have the name of the author
and the book all right so this works
completely fine
okay so the next step in our use case is
to attach the csv file and send over an
email
now for that you have to provide your
credentials that is your email id and
the password now these credentials are
also used multiple times across the test
case so instead of specifying it every
time we can create two variables right
one for the email id and one for the
password so for that click on variables
here
and say create variable
and
okay we have one already here so
let's call it email
and the other one
is called
password
so go ahead and provide your credentials
so i provide my email id
and then my password
okay and then save it
all right now we have to attach this csv
file and send over an email right for
that we have an activity
called send smtp mail message
so go ahead and drag and drop it here
and now it has three fields it has the
two field the subject field and the body
field right so two is where you provide
the email id
so here i just say email because i've
already defined a variable the next is
the subject so i say
attachment
and say the body i'll keep it simple and
say pfa okay now we have to attach the
file right so click on attach files and
here we have to provide the path to the
file
so go back to the place where you've
saved your csv file and
copy the path
and paste it here
as an expression and at the end you
provide the name of the file so it was
demo one underscore rpa dot csv
okay so now go ahead click on ok
now we have a lot of other fields to
provide here as well
so here
we have
the port field now the smtp port that
we're using is number 465 so go ahead
and provide that
and the server
is basically smtp.gmail.com
all right and again we have to provide
the email ids that is just email
and this is just
password
and then
two is also provided already and the
sender is again me so i say
email again
and the password is again password
all right
so now save it
okay and as you can see
there are no errors
that means it's good to go
okay so let's go ahead and execute this
and see if it executes successfully so
go ahead and execute it
all right so it has successfully
finished its execution so now let's go
to my gmail account and see if i've
received an email and yes i have
so go ahead and click on that
and here
i download the file and see if it's
appropriately sent and here we go so
here we go we have the name of the book
and the author
okay so with this we've successfully
implemented an rpa bot for email
automation hey everyone
welcome to this session by simply learn
in this video
we will learn about ui path studio in
depth and understand it's working with a
demo
this tutorial will help you understand
the following concepts
you will learn what is uipath
and the various advantages of uipath
then
you will look at the different products
offered by uipath and understand the
uipath interface
after that you will see the companies
using uipath and look at a demo to
automate a task using uipath studio
so without further ado let's begin
so what is uipath
now rpa is a technology with which human
tasks can be automated
to facilitate this a tool is required
uipath is one such tool among others
that are used to create bots with the
help of visual processes and diagrams
it provides complete end-to-end
automation calling it hyper automation
ui path was founded by daniel dynes and
marius turka in 2005.
uipath is specially used for windows
process automation
it automates repetitive tasks
and lastly
uipath offers drag and drop
functionalities to make it easy to use
now since there are so many other tools
like blue prism automation anywhere in
the market what makes uipath stand out
so let's look at the advantages of
uipath
first
uipath has an activity library
this library has several built-in
activities and features like display
message
input box and so on this improves the
customer experience
we will deal with these activities in
the demo later
next up
is security
rpa deals with a variety of information
like credit card numbers financial
information and passwords
uipath offers extensive security since
all the information can be encrypted and
stored on a centralized server
up next we have recorders
so ui path uses a micro recorder to
record the user actions such as mouse
clicks and keystrokes
once the actions are recorded they can
be emulated using emulators for quick
automation
third-party integration
ui path can be integrated with third
party plugins like ibm watson and google
plugins
then we have powerful debugging
ui path studio comes with a debug
component that helps find and locate
problems easily in complex workflows
this is useful for viewing the execution
of each activity to verify what data it
gets and if there are errors in
producing outputs
now let's understand the various ui path
products
first up is uipath studio
this is the platform to create the bots
this product consists of all the
necessary drag and drop activities and a
robust ui to help develop bots of your
choice now the uipath studio consists of
the gui dashboard
it offers a visual dashboard with
activities like send email display
message and so on
then we have types of recorders uipath
studio offers various types of recorders
to record actions on multiple platforms
then we have logging and exception
handling
it offers various options for debugging
and exception handling such as debug
open logs slow step etc and finally we
have reusable components
the user can create reusable components
to publish them together as libraries
next we have the uipath robots
all the automation tasks that created
are run by uipath robots
there are two types of robots
attended robots and unattended robots
attended robots
work with you to speed up service desk
and help desk it is used in activities
where human involvement is the key
unattended robots operate without human
touch maximizing cost and performance
benefits for any variety of back office
tasks
lastly
we have the uipath orchestrator
the orchestrator is like a centralized
entity where you can deploy secure
manage all your automation tasks
here are the steps involved
first
you create a bot now you create a
project and publish it as a process for
further use
once a process is created it is assigned
to a specific robot to execute in an
environment
this collectively constitutes a job
now let's move on to the architecture of
uipath
so on the top
you have the client layer consisting of
uipath studio and the uipath robot
now the uipath robot has two parts
one is the uipath agent service which
displays all the available jobs in the
system tree and the other one is the
uipath executor service which is used to
run the jobs in one windows session
the server layer receives the robot once
it is ready for execution with the help
of the orchestrator
you can run the project on different pcs
the orchestrator monitors the deploys
configures queue management and logging
lastly we have the persistent layer
which consists of the databases
it takes care of the queues and holds
information about the robot
configuration and their assigned
processes
now that we know what ui path is let's
acquaint ourselves with its user
interface and understand its components
better
so this is what the typical interface
looks like
first we have the ribbon
it consists of three tabs
home design and debug
home is where you start a new project
from pre-defined templates or open a
project you recently worked on by
default the projects are created in the
location shown below
next is the design tab
design tab adds sequences flowcharts and
state machines to your project
it installs and manages activity
packages
it builds interactions with ui elements
and then publishes your work to
orchestrator
finally is debug
it debugs your workflow while using
debugging tools to set up breakpoints
monitor the execution of activity step
by step and adjust the debugging speed
next on the screen is tools
so the tools tab can be used for
installing extensions from chrome
firefox edge java silverlight citrix and
windows remote desktop and is also used
for launching the ui explorer and
project dependencies mass update tool
then we have settings
the settings tab has options for
changing the interface language
theme setting global preferences and
managing activity feeds
so you have general settings then there
is settings for design locations managed
resources and finally license and
profile
up next you have help
the help tab directs you to product
documentation release notes online
resources the community forum and the
rpa academy
after that
you have the recorder
the recorder component in uipath studio
allows the user to record ui mouse
movements and keyboard activities to
generate automation scripts
after that
you have scraping
so ui path studio supports two types of
scraping one is screen scraping and the
next one is data scraping
so screen scraping is programmatic
collection of visual data and data
scraping is the extraction of structured
data from an application
then you have user events
user events records events such as mouse
clicks and keystrokes
then you have variables so variables
hold different types of data
these variables can change over time
uipath makes an easy provision to create
and remove unused variables
on the bottom left you have project so
the project panel enables you to view
the components of the current project
add folders open the file location
manage dependencies and adjust project
settings
beside it
you have activities panel
so the activities panel shows available
activities that can be added to the
current workflow
users can use the search box to find
activities navigate through them using
navigation keys and press
you also have the snippets panel which
enables you to easily reuse automation
it includes by default
multiple samples and snippets
to the bottom right you have the
properties panel which is contextual and
enables you to view and change the
properties of a selected activity
you also have the outline panel which
displays the project hierarchy all
available variables and nodes
you can highlight activities in this
panel by selecting them in the designer
panel
the output panel enables you to display
the output of the log message or write
line activities among other things
exceptions for packages are also
displayed in this panel
so now that you have understood the
interface of uipath let's look at the
companies using uipath
so you have accenture capgemini
cognizant ethos and deloitte to name a
few
now
we'll do a demo to automate a task using
uipath studio
so here is what we are going to do in
the demo
we will create an automated process to
fetch data from a website wherein the
bot would extract data like the name of
the person
the phone number and the email id
this data will store it in an excel
sheet and send it over an email
now let's get started
now to do this demo
we'll be using the fake name generator
website to generate random data of
people and store this data set in an
excel sheet
now if i had to do this manually i would
first create an excel sheet so let me
open an excel workbook
i'll create a blank workbook
so this is where i'll put my data if i
had to do it manually
so now let me take you to
the fake name generator website
so i'll search for
fakenamegenerator.com
so this is the website where you can
generate
fake names
now
if i had to store this data in excel
i would manually copy paste each and
every detail and paste it onto the excel
sheet
so for that
first i had to create columns like name
then
phone number
and this in
the email
after that
i had to come back
to this
and
copy each of these fields
so name
if i had to take the phone number
so i would
copy this
and similarly for the email address as
well
for one record it is fine
what if you are asked to fetch 100
records or say 200 records
then this method is not at all visible
it is time consuming and inefficient
you need to find a way where you can
automate this task of fetching records
ui path is a solution for this
so let's see how we can automate this
task using the uipath studio
so i'll click on open
main workflow
first
we need to direct ui path to go to the
fake name generator website
for that
we need the sequence activity
so let me search for sequence here
so under activities
i'll search for
sequence
and i'll drag it
here
after that
i need to open the website in a web
browser
so for that
let me search for another activity
called open browser
so under activity
i look for
open browser
so i'll drag it on the sequence itself
now
it is asking you to insert the url of
the website
and it must be within double quotes
so i'll go to my website
copy paste the url
have to give this url within double
quotes then i'll paste it
now we need to select the name of the
browser where you want to open this
website
so under input and browser type
i'll choose
chrome
now let me go ahead and run this file
so
under debug
i have run file
i'll click on it
so as you can see the website is
automatically opened in a new window on
chrome
i'll close this
the next step in the process is to tell
the program how many records we want to
fetch from the website
for this
we will create an input dialog box
so
under activities
i'll search for
input
so here you get the input dialog box
i'll drag and drop it on the top
now
it is asking us to give the details so
i'll
put it within double quotes say enter
the
details of customers
or say
people
and then here
i'll give enter the
number of
records you want to fetch
now
now i have to store this information in
a variable
so under variables
i'll create a variable and name it as
total
is the total number of records i want to
fetch
similarly
under output result i will give the same
variable name as total
now we need to fetch the details a
number of times repeatedly say for 10
times or 20 times or 50 times
to do this operation
i will be using a do while loop
so to use a do while loop
i'll first search for
do while
and i'll drop it to the
do section of the sequence
as you can see
do while has two components
one is the body
and the other one is condition
the body has the things that you want
the program to do
the condition is where you evaluate
certain conditions every time when the
program has to do a task
so for every step or iteration
it will check if the condition is true
or not
and go inside the body of the loop
now for doing this
we need to assign a variable
so
let's name the variable as
val
and i'll change the variable type to
integer
and i'll make the scope
to sequence
i'll also assign a default value of 0.
now we'll compare this val to the
variable total
so the condition i'll give is check
if val is less than total
so under condition
i'll give val
less than
total so every time the value of val is
less than the total
it will keep fetching the records from
the website
you can see it has thrown some error
now this is
because our total variable is of type
string while the val variable is of type
integer
so you can't compare an integer
with a string variable
so that would be absurd
we need to convert the total variable
to an integer using the c and function
so here itself i'll write
c int which is convert this total
variable to integer
you can see the error is gone
the next thing i want to do is if the
value of the valve variable is less than
total i'll increment the value of val to
1.
so to do that
i'll use an activity called assign
so i'll check for
assign
and i'll drag it onto the body
so here i'll give
val
equals to
val
plus 1
this will make sure the value of val
increases by 1 every time there is a new
record inserted
it will continue until the value of val
no longer matches the total
so the next job is to extract
information from the website
to do this
we will use the get full text activity
so i'll search for get full text here
and i'll
drag it right below the assign activity
now
you need to select the information which
you want
so first i want to get the name
i'll click on the indicate element
inside browser
and then select the name of the person
so i'll click on this
and
i click on the name
there you go
now
we need to store this name in a variable
so i'll create a variable
so under variable i'll create
a variable called name
and
in the output also
i'll give the same variable name
next
i want to fetch the phone number of the
person
so i'll again select get full text
and i'll drag it
here
i'll click on indicate element inside
browser
so i'll scroll down
and i'll select the phone number of the
person
so we have selected the phone number
similarly i'll store this phone number
in a variable
i'll create a variable called
phone underscore number
and
the output text box also will
give the same variable
as
phone underscore number
after that
i want to get the email address of the
person
so i'll continue with the same drill
i'll select the activity once again
which is get full text and i'll drag it
right here
i'll click on indicate element inside
browser
and now
we'll select the email address which is
this one
similarly
i'll store the email address in a
variable called
email underscore id
and in the output also we'll give the
same variable name which is email
underscore id
now
we need to store the names phone numbers
and email ids into an excel sheet
for that we need to create a data table
so i'll search for data table under
activities
let me go ahead and do that
so i'll
choose build data table and drag it
right below the input dialog box
now this table has to be assigned to a
variable
so let me do that
let me give a variable name as
fetch
underscore
data underscore table
the output also will give the same
variable name which is
fetch underscore data underscore table
one thing i need to tell you here is
we change the variable type
so i'll select browse for types
and
look for data table
which is
system.data
i'll drill down
and search for data table which is this
one
click ok
we need to assign the column names to
this data table
so let me now do that
i'll
uncheck all this and select the columns
so you will give the first column name
as
name itself
click on ok
select one more column
give it as
phone number
click ok
and then
we need the email address
i'll hit ok
so we are done
so first the data table is created and
then we'll write this data to an excel
file
after that
we need to create rows for the data
table
for that
i will search for row
under activities
i'll search for row
and
i'll select
add row
i'll select add data row
i'll place it right below where we have
created all the variables
now i want to add a row for the name
phone number and email address
so under
input i'll select
array row
i'll expand this
and within curly braces
i'll give my variable names
so those would be
name
give a comma
and then
phone underscore number
comma
email
underscore id
click ok
i made a mistake it should be within
curly braces
okay
now to tell the table to which it should
write the rows to we need to assign
under the data table name
so under data table
i'll give
fetch underscore data underscore table
for every iteration a record will be
added to the table
then
we need to refresh the page to extract
the next set of information
so for that
i will add another activity called click
and drop it right below the add data row
so under activities
i'll search for
click
and i'll select
mouse click
and i'll drop it
right
below this one
now we need to indicate where do we want
to click from the browser
so
click on this
go on top
and
select
generate
so we want to click on generate
next i will write the data to a csv file
so i'll search for
write csv under activities
and
i'll drop it towards the
end of the sequence
right here
now you need to give the location where
you want to place this file on your
system
and give the source from where it will
take the information
so
let's give the location where you want
to place this file
i'll place it on my desktop itself
i'll name this as
fetch
save it
and
for the source
i'll give
fetch underscore data underscore table
we are all set now let's run it
so under debug file
i'll select
run file
i'll
enter the number of records so let me
fetch 10 records
click on ok
now this might take some time
i believe it has run successfully now
let me check for my csv file
that should ideally be on my desktop
there you go so we have the csv file let
me open it
you can see it has extracted
10 rows of data
and three columns namely
name of the person the phone number and
the email address
so we are done with the first task of
automatically generating data from a
website
the next task is to send this file
over email
now to send an email
you need the smtp activity
so under
activities i'll search for smtp
i'll drag it right below here
now we need to configure this
i'll be actually sending this email from
someone else's email id to my email id
so under 2
i'll give my email address which is
within quotes i'll type abhijit dot
biswal at
simplylearn.net
i'll give a subject
as
automatic
data
extraction
under body i'll give something like hi
please find a test
now we have to attach the file
we have to give the location of the file
here
so
let me go to
properties
and
i'll select this
cancel
paste this here
followed by
the file name which is
fetch
dot csv
i'll click on ok
after that
i have to give the host port number
which is 465
and
the
and the server name
which is smtp
under log on
i'll give the sender's email id
i have to give the password as well
under the receiver it's my email id
which is rbg.bushwhile simplyloan.net
for the sender i'll give the email ids
chin my dot this pandey at
simplylearn.net
and i'll give a dummy name
schedule
so we are almost done
let me now go to debug file and run this
it is asking to enter the number of
records i will give
5
click on ok
this will take some time so let's just
wait
so we have successfully run our program
now let me check my inbox if i have got
any mail from chinmay
so there you go
i have got this email
and below you can see
the fetch.csv file attached and it has
five rows
now assuming you have a basic
understanding of rpa let's go on and
compare the popularly used tools
first up is trial version every tool
generally offers a trial version for its
users to get acquainted with the tool
this helps the users understand the tool
better and decide if they want to
proceed with using the tool
prism offers a free trial version
it's available in two options either on
the cloud or on the local computer
uipath also offers a free edition
both trial and license versions are
available
automation anywhere offers a free
community version and both tried and
licensed versions are available
next up is base technologies
base technologies define the technology
with which the software was built
blue prism is based on c-sharp
uipath is based on microsoft vendors
like sharepoint kibana and elastic
search
while automation anywhere is based on
modern java technologies
the third feature of comparison is
process designer
blue prism enables you to create design
edit as well as test business processes
from the visual business object
now a vbo is like an adapter provided by
blue prism for communicating with an
application
each visual business object implements a
specific set of operations on an
application's user interface
so these are basically like objects that
encapsulate a particular functional
logic
uipath on the other hand acts as a
visual process designer with developer
friendly options
now a visual process designer is a
dashboard consisting of various tools
through which the developer can define
the automation tasks
automation anywhere is developer
friendly with a visual interface built
for business users along with advanced
features for developers
business users and developers can work
side by side to build bots
they can see the visual interface and
code in a single screen
the next feature of comparison is
accessibility
blue prism offers browser based access
only ui path and automation anywhere on
the contrary offer both application
based and browser-based accessibility
in case of automation anywhere the
control room can be accessed with a
browser or a mobile application
this is the only platform where users
can create bots on any device or any
operating system
moving on to the next feature
learning
now in case of blue prism the user
should have the necessary knowledge of
programming you should be able to create
business objects
and manage them in the control center
ui path enables you to design automation
processes visually through diagrams the
developer need not know a programming
language in particular
when it comes to automation anywhere it
is developer friendly and offers both
visual and programming features
business users can build bots with the
help of drag and drop features
beginners benefit from the built-in
product walkthrough
next up is robots
now before we jump in let's discuss what
the different types of bots are
there are two types of quads we have the
front office boards whose deployment is
in the user's control
we also have back office bots that can
run on locked machines from an
orchestrator the user may not be
actively involved in its working
so moving on to the comparison
blue prism offers back office automation
only
ui path and automation anywhere offer
both front and back office automation
in case of automation anywhere the hbc
or the human bot collaboration feature
enables humans and bots to work together
to complete a task and also to manage
exceptions and escalations
moving on the next feature is macro
recorder
now the macro recorder allows you to
record keyboard activities and mouse
events to generate automation scripts
these activities are arranged based on
the order or sequence of actions being
performed on the screen
so moving on to the comparison blue
prism does not use a macro recorder
uipath makes use of a mac2 recorder to
enable fast process mapping automation
anywhere offers a universal recorder so
that the user need not select different
recorders for different tasks
moving on to the next feature
architecture
an application that runs on the client
side and accesses the remote server for
information uses a client server
architecture whereas an application that
runs entirely on a web browser uses the
web architecture
in case of a client server architecture
the user interaction with the server is
always through a user interface or
application on the client side
on the other hand in a web application
the user interaction is thoroughly
through a web browser now blue prism and
uipath both incorporate a client server
architecture
automation anywhere incorporates a cloud
native web-based microservices
architecture
it is the only platform that provides a
complete digital worker solution on the
web
users with any skill level can instantly
start building robots on a browser
without any heavy installation
the next feature is accuracy
blue prism is accurate for desktop web
and citrix automation
ui path shines in citrix automation
designed for bpo automation
and automation anywhere shines in citrix
automation with ai sense technology
well any automation solution built using
a virtual desktop or built to work in
virtual desktops is called citrix
automation
moving on to the next feature
reusability
blue prism consists of a library of
business objects that can be reused
across multiple methods
it also offers high reliability
in the case of uipath the processes can
be used for various synthesis services
with several workflow modules
as a result uipath offers a high degree
of usability and moderate reliability
in the case of automation anywhere apart
from the standard common library users
can develop custom actions upload and
manage packages in their enterprise
control room
every bot created in automation anywhere
is reusable
the bot store has hundreds of
pre-configured bots and digital workers
to kick start a user's rpa journey
next up is pricing
blue prism has a high cost of
acquisition it also offers restricted
training
uipath offers effective pleasant
entry-level pricing
automation anywhere offers attractive
entry-level pricing
its users also experience the lowest
total cost of ownership because of its
native capabilities and web-based
architecture
moving on to the last feature
certifications
blue prism offers several certifications
like blue prism professional developer
blue prism rom architect among others
ui part provides free online training
and certification programs like rpa
developer advanced certification
automation anywhere university offers
free online training and certification
programs for both students and advanced
practitioners
professionals can also avail job role
specific certifications
there are several rpa tools in the
market today however blue prism
automation anywhere and uipath are
leading the market
first let's understand who an rpa
developer is
now generally speaking an rpa developer
is someone who works cross-functionally
with business operations and business
analysts to create and optimize workflow
processes
now however this is a relatively new
career path and many organizations
formal titles for rpa developers differ
now other similar positions may use
titles like process designer or
automation architect
but no matter the title the role of a
successful rpa developer requires
specific skills and best practices like
documentation and planning
now in order to automate a business
process an rpa developer will be
required to create workflow diagrams and
strategically document the process prior
to implementation
now he may also be responsible for
testing and bug fixes so coding skills
are also important
now in order to become a successful rpa
developer you must have the ability to
navigate through appropriate
technologies such as uipath or
automation anywhere
however there are a few prerequisites to
become an rpa developer
well it's not very hard but a little
prep is necessary
so let's go through them one by one
first up is strategic planning
now planning is a critical phase in any
development life cycle
the rpa developer regardless of the
designation should possess the aptitude
to ensure strategic planning
strategic planning basically includes
design development and implementation of
rpa systems
this also helps streamline the entire
business to optimize the efficiency
next up is analytical skills
now again as the name suggests it's
crucial to analyze the information and
make decisions to maximize your
efficiency right now these are skills
that one develops when they're exposed
to it so over a period of time you're
going to develop these skills not to
worry about it now
next up is problem solving skills now
these skills are again crucial to
predict any potential outages and equip
the entire unit to overcome any
unforeseen
interruptions from the business
perspective as well problem solving
skills play a significant role in
ensuring smooth conduction of tasks
experience in programming languages like
say c plus plus c python ruby java is
also crucial
next up is hands-on experience and rpe
tools and cognitive platforms like blue
prism automation anywhere redwood open
span etc
now other general skills include
communication skills as well
now this is pivotal for any organization
now the developer should be outspoken
and should articulate new ideas
now that you're familiar with the skills
required let's look at the job
description for an rpa developer and
some of his responsibilities
so here's a screenshot of the job
advertisement posted by ibm
as mentioned some of the
responsibilities include crafting
automation process solutions coding and
scripting in any of the automation tools
configuring new automation using core
automation tools communicating with
business analysts and clients building
and documenting the best procedures
supporting the operational teams during
any rollout phases
supporting existing processes and
implementing change requirements
and successfully managing any sort of
issues so if you're aspiring to become
an rpa developer then these are some of
the job responsibilities that you will
have to readily take
up if you're still wondering if this
field has scope for development in the
coming years let me clarify it for you
so let's go ahead and look at the rpa
growth projections and salary
according to gartner robotic process
automation software grew up by 63 in
2018 making it the fastest growing
segment of the global enterprise
software market
now the growth curve has also been
steadily increasing since 2016 and
continues beyond 2020.
now it is also predicted that rpa will
touch more than 230 million knowledge
workers which constitute up to say nine
percent of the global workforce
now any company which is labor intensive
where people are performing high volume
high transaction functions can totally
benefit from rpa
so if you're still skeptical about
picking up rta i hope this clarified it
for you
so moving on to salaries in the u.s the
average sanity of an rpa developer is
around 76 000 us dollars
the average size of an rpa developer in
india is around 6 lakh rupees per annum
so the companies that are greatly hiring
for rpa developers are ibm capgemini
emphasis volvo and accenture among
others
moving on here are a few tips to
kickstart your rpa career
so let's go ahead and look at them one
by one
first up is to choose your rpa platforms
now all rpa tools have graphical user
interface or guis
but it's really helpful to understand
the underlying technology now this comes
in extremely handy when the developer
has to create more complex c
personalized or advanced bots
so if you are a python developer then
you can start off by working with argos
labs so this allows the developers to
build plugins with almost no effort from
the existing python code
so if you're a python developer then you
can start off by working with argos labs
now this really allows developers to
build plugins with literally no effort
and if you're a dot net developer then
you can start off with ui path or
automation anywhere's community
additions
so if you're a java developer then you
can start off with automation anywhere
and if you're a developer with no
experience then you can begin with any
of the leading rpa providers
now tip number two is to start building
there are plenty of free materials and
guides to help you begin your rpa
journey so some of the famous or
well-known rpa tools are blue prism work
fusion ui path automation anywhere etc
so just start working on them
tip number three is build your github
repository
no matter how small or simple you think
your project is go ahead and put it on
your github repository this totally adds
credibility to your profile even if
you're attending interviews one look at
your github repository is going to make
them realize how good of a developer you
are
tip number four is to take up
freelancing projects
now again to start off you can take up
say non-paid or even low paid projects
some of the websites that you could look
up are up work freelancer troll answer
people per hour
so tip number five is to start a blog
now having your own blog will add
credibility to your profile
no matter how less you've worked on any
projects you can go ahead and type in
all the information you want recruiters
can also have a glance at your profile
you're definitely going to get some
extra points for this
tip number six is to ensure you update
your resume and profile now keep your
resume and profiles updated on all job
portals like linkedin indeed simply
hired and monster
so these were some simple tips to help
you become an rpa developer now that
we've established that rpa has a steep
growth curve let's look at the rpa job
roles that you should look out for
we have the rpa developer
senior rpa developer
rpa process architect
rp developer senior consultant
project manager
lead developer
business analyst and rpa data analyst
now these job roles come with specific
responsibilities depending on the
designation
however there are a few common
responsibilities of an rpa developer
let's go ahead and check them out
now the first one is strategic planning
skills now planning is a crucial phase
in any development life cycle the rpa
developer regardless of the designation
should possess the aptitude to ensure
strategic planning
planning includes the design development
and implementation of rpa systems
this also helps streamline the business
next up is strong analytical skills now
to understand the client's requirements
and cater to the needs accordingly is
crucial
analytical skills are also important to
predict or identify potential bugs and
errors and rectify them
now this scale is especially required if
you're involved in the overall
development
next we have strong problem solving
skills now this again is extremely
crucial to predict any outages and equip
the entire unit to overcome any
unforcing interruptions from the
business perspective as well problem
solving skills play a significant role
in ensuring smooth conduction of tasks
experience in any programming language
such as c c plus plus python ruby java
or dot net is also important
hands-on experience in rpa tools and
cognitive platforms such as blue prism
automation anywhere ui path open span
etc is necessary
communication skills are pivotal for any
organization the developer should be
outspoken and articulate any new ideas
you should also be confident to raise
concerns and be as transparent as
possible in the long run this only
proves to be helpful to the organization
lastly we have exposure to sql now
experience with database be it sql or
nosql is highly preferred it's always an
added advantage if you have the
knowledge about accessing and managing
databases
next up we have rpa developer salaries
now the salaries will differ depending
on the location your experience and also
the designation
now in the u.s here are the job salaries
and the roles
according to glassdoor an rpa developer
in the us earns around 76 000 us dollars
per year
the nrp developer senior consultant
earns around 99 000 us dollars per year
an rpa process architect earns an
average salary of 95 000 us dollars and
a senior rpa developer earns an average
salary of 92 000 us dollars
an rpa project manager earns around 73
000 us dollars per annum an rpa lead
developer earns an average salary of 99
000 us dollars per annum an rpa business
analyst earns around 68 000 us dollars
per annum and the data analyst earns
around 62 000 us dollars per annum
moving on to india the average salary of
an rpa developer is around 5 lakhs 98
000 rupees
that of a senior consultant a senior rp
developer and an rpa lead developer is
around 14 lakhs per annum
and the average salary of an rpa
business analyst is around 5 lakhs 40
000 rupees
now let me quickly run you through a
sample resume of an rpa developer now
this is just a template and you can
alter it according to your needs
first up is your general information
like name phone number and your email id
then you can give a quick description
about yourself and your strengths you
can also mention the objective as to why
you're applying and what you're looking
for in the organization
you can include your linkedin profile
link and your github link one look at
your linkedin profile is enough for
anybody to gather all the information
necessary so make sure that it's updated
moving on you could mention your
experience now here you would have to
mention the names of your previous
organizations along with your
designation and the tenure
you could also include your key
responsibilities in these organizations
along with your responsibilities you
could also mention the awards that you
received in your organizations
next up is your educational background
you can mention the university that you
graduated from and is required that you
have a degree in computer science you
can also go ahead and mention your gpa
the next section is skills now this is
pretty crucial in the technical skills
section you could mention about
different rpa tools that you've worked
on if you're good at a particular
programming language go ahead and
mention that as well
as mentioned earlier any experience in
database management is an added
advantage
if you have any experience go ahead and
mention that moving on to non-technical
skills you could mention any
extracurricular activities that you're
proud of some soft skills that you feel
worth mentioning can be added in this
section mentioning the languages that
you know can also boost your resume
now given all this it's fundamental that
you do not lie on your resume in today's
video we're going to discuss the top rpa
interview questions
now if you're looking to make a career
in this field and if you're just
browsing around for jobs then you're in
the right place this video will
absolutely help you crack that next
interview of yours so without further
ado let's begin
the first question is what is rpa
now robotic process automation is the
use of software with artificial
intelligence and machine learning
capabilities to handle high volume
repetitive tasks that previously
required humans to perform now some of
these tasks could be addressing queries
making calculations maintenance of
records or even performing transactions
now rpa is a form of automation that
basically sticks to the front end of the
system and carries out tasks without
having to move to the back end now this
is an essential feature of rpa
next up is mention a few applications of
rpa
there are several applications to
mention a few we have open mails and
attachments fill in forms and move files
and folders
follow if then rules connect to system
apis extract structured data from
documents make complex calculations
monitor manual processes and learn how
to perform them
read and write databases scrape data
from documents and even log into web
enterprise applications
next question is mention a few
advantages of rpa
firstly rpa reduces cost now by
automating tasks the cost saving of
almost 30 can be achieved through rpa
rpa reduces operational risks various
companies prefer to outsource busy work
to external parties now this comes with
an inherent risk of human errors and
inefficiency now rpa brings forth a
better solution and since work stays
in-house there's less operational risk
next up is quality and accuracy rpa
offers services to processes with a high
probability of human errors thereby
increasing accuracy robots are reliable
and consistent and don't complain when
expected to work tirelessly
next up is scalability with the help of
rpa companies can make adjustments based
on seasonality and can easily scale up
or down the operation as needed
reduced workload automating tasks like
report making can significantly reduce
the workload on the employee allowing
them to focus on other critical tasks
improved customer satisfaction since
accuracy is maintained and operational
risk is minimal customers are provided
with quality content
lastly we have improved business results
since all employees are focusing on
activities that add more value to the
company improved results in the business
are visible
the next question is what are some
industries that can benefit from rpa
there are several industries and domains
that are currently benefiting from rpa
to mention a few there's banking and
finance iit integration processes human
resources insurance agencies marketing
and sales and customer relationship
management
moving on to next question what are rpa
tools
now to meet the objectives of rpa rpa
tools are used
they are the software with the help of
which one can configure tasks and build
bots to automate them
some of the popular ones in the market
today are ui path blue prism automation
anywhere work fusion and redwood
moving on to next question explain the
working of rpa
now the typical working of rpa includes
four crucial stages
the first stage is planning in this
stage the processes to be automated are
defined which includes identifying the
test objects finalizing the
implementation approach and defining a
clear roadmap for the rpa implementation
the next step is design and development
in this phase you start developing the
automation workflows as per the agreed
plan
thirdly we have deployment and testing
this phase typically includes the
execution of the bots any unexpected
outages are to be taken care of during
the deployment to ensure accurate
functioning testing of these bots for
bugs and errors is crucial
lastly we have support and maintenance
providing constant support helps in
identifying and rectifying the errors
better
moving on to the next question what is
the difference between traditional
automation and rpa
here's a simple image for you
now to go on to talk about the
differences
traditional automation involves
programming apis and integration tools
to integrate different systems
rp on the other hand mimics the actions
of a user at the user interface level in
the case of traditional automation the
developer needs to have a good
understanding of the target system while
in rpa as long as the bot can exactly
follow the steps the developer need not
worry about the underlying complexities
the next question is mention the types
of rpa
now basically there are three types of
rpa
first up is unattended or autonomous rpa
now this is ideal for reducing work like
completing data processing tasks in the
background they do not require any human
intervention
now these bots can be launched at
specific intervals or they could be
bought initiated or they could be
triggered by some data input next up is
attended rpa now these bots live on the
user's machine and are triggered by the
user
they can be launched when embedded on an
employee's device or they can be
autonomous based on certain conditions
or they can be launched using the rpa
client tool
lastly we have hybrid rpa it has a
combination of attended and autonomous
bots now these bots address front and
back office tasks in the enterprise
the next question is what are front and
back office spots
now front office bots are those whose
deployment is totally in the user's
control they require human intervention
they work from the same desktop as that
of the user it can only be triggered by
local machines manually and cannot run
remotely
when it comes to back office boards
these bots can run on locked machines
from the orchestrator
the user may not be actively involved in
its working and these bots can be
triggered remotely by servers
the next question is what are some
features of rpa
first up is rich analytical suite now
rpa monitors and manages automated
functions from a central console
now this console can be accessed from
anywhere and offer basic metrics on
robots servers workflows and more
simple creation of bots
rpa tools allow quick creation of bots
effortlessly by capturing mouse clicks
and key strokes with built-in screen
recorder components
scriptless automation
rpa tools are code free and can automate
any application in any department
employees with less programming skills
can create bots through guis
security
rpa tools enable the configuration as
well as customization of encryption
capabilities for securing certain data
types to defend against the interruption
of network communication
hosting and deployment rpa systems can
automatically deploy bots in groups of
hundreds hence rpa can be installed on
desktops and deployed on servers to
access data for repetitive tasks
debugging some rpa tools required to
stop running to rectify the errors while
other tools allow dynamic interaction
while debugging this is one of the most
powerful features of rpa
moving on
what are the major differences between
blue prism and uipath
moving on to the first feature is trial
version
blue prism offers a trial version it's
available in two options either on cloud
or on the local computer ui path on the
other hand offers free edition both
trial and license versions are available
moving on to base technologies blue
prism is completely based on c-sharp ui
path is based on sharepoint kibana and
elasticsearch
moving on to process designer blue prism
allows you to create design edit as well
as test business processes from the
visual business object
but what exactly is a vbo
a vbo can take the form of a set of
coded functions which may be written in
vb.net or csharp.net
uipath acts as a visual process designer
with friendly developer options now a
visual process designer basically is a
dashboard consisting of various tools
through which a developer can define the
automation tasks
moving on to accessibility blueprism
allows only browser-based accessibility
uipath on the other hand provides mobile
and browser accessibility
moving on to robots blueprism offers
back-office automation only while uipath
offers both front and back office
automation
the next crucial factor is a macro
recorder
in case of blue prism a macro recorder
does not exist
while in the case of uipath it consists
of a macro recorder enabling faster
process mapping
moving on what is citrix automation
any automation solution
built using a virtual desktop or built
to work in virtual desktops is citrix
automation
it plays a major role in small to
corporate companies like bpo and contact
centers where applications are being
accessed remotely because of security
considerations
next question is what is uipath studio
now uipath studio is basically a
platform to create the automation bots
it encompasses hundreds of activity
templates and ready-made components to
drag and drop
ui path studio consists of first up is
gui dashboard it offers a visual
dashboard with activities like send
email display message and so on
it also consists of different types of
recorders uipath studio offers various
recorders to record actions on multiple
platforms
next up is logging and exception
handling it offers various options for
these two such as debug open logs slow
step etc
lastly it offers reusable components
here the user can create usable
components to publish them together as
libraries
moving on what are activities in uipath
the activities panel shows available
activities that can be added to the
current workflow users can use the
search box to find various activities
navigate through them using navigation
keys and press
system activities pack contains all the
basic activities used for creating
automation projects these activities
enable the robots to manipulate data
tables by adding or extracting
information or directly interact with
directories and files on your machine
performing any action a human user would
also there are other types of activities
in the pack that aid in the creation and
execution of automation projects
themselves such as logical operators and
expressions
moving on what is a sequence in ui path
a sequence is a simple linear
representation that flows from top to
bottom and defines which activities are
to be performed
all right you can see a simple example
on your screen here
so to give you a detailed explanation
let me just navigate to ui path
and here i can create a new sequence i
go to new click on sequence
and let me call it sequence as it is and
say create
all right now a sequence is created so i
want to display two messages so let's
look for the activity that is message
box
i drag and drop it here
and let me display hello first
and i drag another message box and after
that i drop it here and
okay let me do that again
all right and here i display welcome
all right
so let's save this and debug
according to the logic hello has to be
displayed first and then welcome right
so let's go ahead and see if it does
that
all right you see a hello message first
followed by which you can see the
welcome message
so this is what a sequence is
moving on to the next question
what is scraping in uipath
now scraping can be done in two ways
first up is data scraping now this is a
technique with the help of which
structured data can be extracted from
the web or any application and saved to
a database or a spreadsheet or a dot csv
file
in the case of screen scraping it is a
process of collecting screen display
data from one application and
translating it so that another
application can display it
now you can see the two options on the
top of your user interface in ui path
moving on
what are uipath robots
now uipath's robots run the automation
that is created using the uipath studio
now there are two types of robots as
discussed earlier we have attended
robots now they work with you to speed
up the process like service desk
operation or help desk operations now it
is used in activities where human
involvement is key
next up is unattended robots now these
operate without the human touch
maximizing cost and performance benefits
for any variety of back office tasks
next question
what does a uipath orchestrator do
now the orchestrator is a centralized
robot management dashboard where you can
easily deploy secure and manage your ui
path robots at scale
first you have to create the bot
the project is then published as a
process for further use once a process
is created it is assigned to a specific
robot to execute in an environment this
collectively constitutes a job
all of this is taken care of by the
uipath orchestrator
next question how is exceptional
handling achieved in uipath
exception handling is one of the error
handling methods in uipath the error
handling activity has four options
first up is read through now using this
activity a robot throws an exception
again which was previously caught while
executing the workflow
for this activity we don't need to
provide any specified message
secondly we have terminate workflow now
this is a mechanism where we can ask the
robot to terminate rest activities
this activity is mostly used when there
is no data to process
to use this activity we may need to
provide the exception message which the
bot may login the error rock file which
we can refer to later
third is throw through activity is a
mechanism wherein if a bot fails to
execute a mentioned activity it throws
an error with a specified error message
to help us understand better
lastly we have try catch now this
activity has three parts the try block
would be executed and if there was an
error it will be caught in the catch
section
now after executing the try block robot
will execute the finally block in any
condition
moving on what are break points in
uipath
breakpoints are used to purposely pause
the debugging process on any activity
that may trigger execution issues
you can place and modify a breakpoint on
any of the activities as follows
so from the context menu you can right
click on an activity and select toggle
breakpoint so let me show you how that
works
so here in my sequence i can just right
click on it
and here you can see the toggle
breakpoint option you can go ahead and
click on that that is one of the methods
or i can select the activity and click
on the breakpoints button on the debug
tab so let me show you
here let me select this
and in my debug tab
i can click on breakpoints and say
toggle breakpoint
that is another method and lastly i can
press f9 while the desired activity is
being selected
it's as simple as that
moving on to the next question what is a
macro recorder
a macro recorder allows you to record
mouse events and keyboard activities to
generate automation scripts
now the activities are arranged based on
the sequence of actions being performed
on the screen right so this sequence is
saved in your workflow which you can
later use it to play back the recorded
action
moving on what are the user events in
uipath mention a few
now user events and uipath specify the
actions performed due to the occurrence
of certain events right some of these
events could be click key press or
monitor mouse or any monitor keyboard
etc
so when it comes to on click element now
this basically monitors all the click
events on a specified ui element the
mouse buttons left right and middle are
used for the click action
by default the left mouse button is
selected
on prepress element now this monitors
keyboard events on a specified ui
element
special keys are supported and you can
select them from the activity drop down
list this field supports only strings
and string variables
on click image this monitors the image
defined by the target ui element for
mouse input
and monitor mouse this monitors a
specified mouse key combination
system-wide event
moving on
we have what are the different
activities performed by uipath
we have core activities for automation
processes
cognitive activities for language
translations credential activities for
enabling the addition or deletion of
credentials database activities
basically used for executed queries
transactions etc we have excel
activities for automating ms excel tasks
ftp activities for performing functions
on the ftp server
intelligent ocr activities for
digitization and scraping we have mail
activities for working with imap pop3
smtp outlook
we have pdf activities for data
extraction from pdf
python activities for invoking python
scripts and methods
terminal activities for retrieving data
from the terminal we have web activities
for performing soap and http requests to
any web apis and their word activities
for automating activities in ms word
so these are the few you could mention
moving on what does the control room in
automation anywhere do
the control room is a web-based platform
that controls automation anywhere all
right the control room deals with user
management source control
i mean the code for the bots is managed
by the control room
dashboard it gives complete analytics
and results of automation anywhere bots
and license management the purchased
licenses for automation anywhere
configured in the control room now there
are two types of licenses in automation
anywhere you have the device license
which allows you to create a bot edit
bot and then run a bot and you have the
run license where the user can only run
the bot and cannot make any changes
so this is what the control room does
moving on to the next question what is a
bot runner
now a bot runner is the machine where
you run the bot now you could have
multiple bots running in parallel you
only need the run license to run the
bots
the bots will report back the execution
logs pass fail status back to the
control room
moving on what are task bots meta bots
and iq boards
so task bots basically are the bots that
automate a rule-based repetitive task in
areas like documentation administration
hr claims management etc
moving on to meta bots these bots are
the automation building blocks it is
designed in such a way that with
application changes or updates you need
to make minimal edits to this board any
changes made to the bot is easily
reflected
lastly we have the iqbots now this is an
advanced tool it can learn on its own
and perform a task according to it iq
bots offer automation using highly
advanced cognitive technology
moving on is robotic process automation
similar to screens keeping or macros
now screen scraping mostly talks about
the old green screen applications
mainframe ones where you basically
capture the screen
you process it based on its content and
information that you have
when it comes to rpa it is more
intelligent
more capable and much more robust
what it does it connects to the elements
whether they have windows applications
or java applications does not matter
they connect all the elements it does
use screen scraping yes but it's just a
part of robotic process automation
they're not entirely the same
moving on what are thick and thin
clients
a thick client is the application that
requires certain attribute features
using rpa tools example a computer a
calculator or internet explorer
while a thin client is the application
that never requires the specific
properties while using the rpe tools
very simple
the next question is how is a chatbot
different from rpa
now a chatbot is basically a bot that is
programmed to chat with the user like a
human being would right while in case of
rta it is a bot that is programmed to
automate a manual business process of
executing a task or any activity with a
business function
all right so a chatbot can be used as a
medium to feed input to the rpa board
but it cannot replicate the features of
an rpa system
moving on to the final question can
selenium be used for rpa
well there are lots of test automation
tools in the market today like selenium
qtp and apm these are good test
automation tools and no they cannot be
used for robotic process automation test
automation tools have a constraint they
require software in order to run
but in case of rpa it can be applied to
anything other than a product
and mostly rpa is used to automate
business processes
so selenium or any test automation tool
for that matter cannot be used for rpa
so with that we come to the end of this
crash course i hope it helped you we'll
be back with more videos soon until then
keep learning and stay tuned to simply
learn
[Music]
hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learn youtube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos to nerd up and get certified
click here
