hey guys welcome to this full course on
RPA UI path this full course video will
cover the core topics of RPA UI path RPA
is in demand and highly growing field
uipath is the leading robotic process
automation tool for large scale end to
end automation for an accelerated
business change it provides solution for
business to automate rouin office
activities so if you're interested in
RPA and tools like uipath then you're in
the right place this video will help you
understand the concepts of RPA UI path
so here is the list of topics
covered we'll first understand what is
RPA then look at the top 10 reasons to
to learn robotic process automation we
will see some of the realtime RPA
examples followed by which we will look
at the comparison between RPA tools like
UI path automation anywhere and blue
prism proceeding further we will
understand what is uip paath and then
learn how uip paath is installed in the
device then we will see the uip tutorial
for beginners followed by which we will
go through uipath orchestrator uipath
robotic Enterprise framework uipath web
Automation and then we will see Excel
Automation in uipath as to how Excel is
used in uipath lastly we will see RPA
developer salaries skills resume roles
and
responsibilities and finally uip paath
interview questions that will help you
crack the interview with ease I'm sure
you're excited to begin with full course
but before we begin make sure you have
subscribed to our YouTube channel and
clicked on the Bell icon so you never
miss an update from Simply learn so
without wasting any further time let's
get started this is Jim he is an
accountant in a multinational company he
handles several invoices and other
Financial records like monetary
transactions liabilities checks and
ledgers on a daily basis one of his
tasks is to copy all the relevant
information from these invoices such as
has the name of the company invoice ID
and data processing into a spreadsheet
and mail the sheet along with other
Financial reports to a superiors by the
end of the day as any prompt employee he
transfers all the information to the
sheet attaches the reports and sends
them over to his boss via email every
day but over a period he starts finding
this task to be timeconsuming and
repetitive frustrated Jim looks for a
way to reduce the time and effort it
takes to complete the task and voila he
stumbles across robotic process
automation AKA RPA using robotic process
automation he builds a simple bot that
extracts information from several
invoices into an Excel sheet attaches
all the necessary Financial reports and
sends them over to his superiors via
email at a specific time every day so
what exactly is robotic process
automation robotic process automation
RPA is the use of software with
artificial intelligence and machine
learning capabilities to handle high
volume repetitive tasks that previously
required humans to perform some of these
tasks include addressing queries making
calculations maintenance of records and
Performing transactions there are
several misconceptions about RPA RPA is
not a humanoid robot it does not have a
physical form and no resemblance to
humans RPA cannot replace humans or
replicate human cognitive functions it
does not have a brain of its own and
cannot perform logical or critical
thinking as humans do the working of RPA
includes four crucial phases one the
planning phase typically involves
Gathering the processes to be automated
identifying the test objects and
finalizing the implementation approach
two the development phase includes the
creation of automation workflows as per
the agreed Plan Three deployment and
testing is a vital phase since it
uncovers any unexpected outages and
ensures a bug free product four lastly
there's the support and maintenance
phase which ensures that the product is
continuously updated with smooth
deployment across the user base to meet
the objectives of RPA tools are used
these RPA tools are software
applications that can configure tasks
and automate them some of the popular
RPA tools in the market are uip path
automation anywhere blue prism work
Fusion Pega and Redwood among others
when it comes to Quality RPA ensures
consistent error-free output leading to
reduced operational risks this in turn
improves customer satisfaction in the
area of delivery RPA can help decrease
the average handling time and this
enhances the customer experience and
ensures 247 business continuity with
respect to cost according to nascom
domestic businesses can reduce the cost
by up to 65% through RPA it offers a
higher Roi by driving positive returns
within quarters as opposed to years
other advantages of RPA include reduced
training costs minimal utilization of it
resources and easier software migration
today many domains in Industries like
Banking and finance it integration
processes Human Resources insurance
agencies marketing and sales and
customer relationship management readily
deploy RPA RPA service adoption has been
showing tremendous growth since 2016
and will continue to increase Beyond
2020 according to McKenzie's research
knowledge and work automation could have
an economic impact of5 to7 trillion by
the year 2025 it will impact more than
230 million knowledge workers which
constitute 9% of the global Workforce
any company which is labor intensive
where people are performing high volume
High transaction functions stand to
benefit the most with RPA adoption
boosting their capabilities and and
saving money and time now that we've
discussed what RPA is and isn't here's a
question for you which of the following
is not an RPA use case one email query
processing two data extraction three
image recognition four payroll
processing give it a thought and leave
your answers in the comment section
below RPA offers the ability to automate
business processes quickly and easily it
paves the way for digital transformation
by placing automation tools at the
user's disposal so what are you waiting
for get certified and become an RPA
developer to build a bright future in
the field of automation 10 reasons why
you should learn
RPA but before jumping into it let me
give you a brief insight into what
exactly RPA
is now uh do you remember the time you
Ed the digital calculator in maybe your
Calculus class it made it so so much
easier for you to arrive at an
answer calculators undoubtedly helped
you solve complex mathematical problems
which previously required a lot of time
and of course doing manual calculations
have inherently several
errors but does calculation account for
automation well no a conventional
calculator requires manual input so this
is partial
automation automating the use of a
calculator that requires zero human
intervention is what RPA
does so what exactly is
RPA robotic process automation is the
use of software with artificial
intelligence and machine learning
capabilities to handle high volume
repeated tasks that previously required
humans now some of these tasks include
addressing queries making calculations
maintening records or even making
transactions so why is RPA gaining
popularity so rapidly and why do
companies and techies have RPA
prospectives so here are the 10 reasons
why one should learn
RPA so number 10 fast
implementation now getting data entry
Bots up and running goes quickly
implementing a new RPA Software System
certainly happens much faster than
training a new person
you can have these data entry Bots up
and running in just days in contrast if
you wanted to hire a new human employee
you'd be taking a lot of time in sorting
out resum√©s conducting interviews going
through the entire boring hiring process
and then finally when you find the right
person you'd have to spend time and
energy on training them however in case
of RPA all of this is
countered and number nine we have no
training time so now this is an
important one if your process changes
and the Bots need to learn something new
you can either replace them with new
Bots or alter their programming now that
again goes much faster than training
employees for new tasks in terms of
costs training an employee for a new
task will pan out to be way more
expensive and time
consuming next up the Bots will never
quit now with RPA you don't have to
worry about employees quitting or
dealing with the turnover Bots don't
care how hard they're working or how
boring their job is or how repeatedly
they're doing the same
tasks again yes it would be ironic if
the Bots got tired software Bots can
work all the time 24 hours a day every
single day of the year at 100% capacity
now RPA doesn't take holidays it doesn't
have sick needs and of course they do
not have un productive days at all well
isn't that a treat to have someone who
never retires or decides it's time to
move to a different
job next up minimal it resources
maintaining software Bots requires
minimal it resources in some cases it
doesn't it doesn't need to get involved
at all your RPA systems will be managed
by the software provider they're
responsible for maintenance and up dates
all of that it completely takes the
burden off it and saves your company a
whole lot of
money Roi is visible now every
organization wants to quantify their
gains many of these organizations do not
know how they should determine their Roi
but when it comes to adopting robotic
process automation Roi is visible it
defines a clearer path to demonstrate
its
returns comp problems can be solved now
as our data sources and analytical
capabilities have grown so has the time
required to build various reports
robotic process automation system is
ideal to for solution to solve these
types of problems the system stores the
information and it can also remember and
transform this information very easily
that means this makes you auditable and
Tax
Ready software Migra migration now it's
a fact that software migrations are
timec consuming and
costly migrating to a new software could
take months and cost could turn out to
be tens or thousands of millions of
dollars what's even more frustrating is
that at all times certain features and
functionalities which may have
functioned in a particular way in a
previous version may not even be present
in the updated version so RPA helps with
data migration with accuracy speed and
continuous updating of
software RPA has a free tier many RPA
vendors offer free tiers some of these
vendors are blue prism automation
anywhere uip paath among others these
RPA software vendors are offering High
RPA software notably UI path with their
Community Edition and work fusion with
their RPA
Express this helps lower the total cost
of ownership
there's no rip and
replace now RPA doesn't jeopardize an
employees job but helps with the growth
of new jobs to do your work you'll need
some additional software yes and virtual
machines to deploy fully independent
digital Bots but you may not need to re
rip and replace your existing
infrastructures also there's a common
misconception that RPA could steal our
jobs well that's not true monitoring and
controlling these Bots are completely
the responsibilities of the
developer as a result RPA does not pull
down your existing systems but it
leverages
them lastly popularity and high salary
according to glass door the average
salary of an RPA developer in the US is
$77,000 us and in India the beginning
salary for an RPA developer is around
4.65 lakhs
perim top tier companies like Dell IBM
Accenture cap gin cognizant among others
are readily hiring RPA
developers now with that let's move on
to the growth projections of
RPA now looking at the graph here both
RPA software and
services increased by huge amounts
during between 2016 and 2020
according to McKenzie research knowledge
and work automation could have an
economic impact of 5 to 7 trillion by
the year
2025 it will touch more than 230 million
knowledge workers which are which
constitute about 9% of the global
Workforce any company which is labor
intensive where people are performing
high volume High transaction functions
will boost their capabilities and save
money and time with RPA
now this is all you need to know about
why one should learn RPA but if you're
looking to become a developer let's look
at some of the job roles and
responsibilities RPA developers are
responsible for the creation design
development and implementation of RPA
systems an RPA developer is expected to
provide Guidance with process design
design develop test automation FP
workflows deploy RPA competence beat
Bots robots or development tools support
the implementation of RPA
Solutions create process documentation
and also assure the quality of the
Automation in this video we will be
looking at the robotic process
automation example let us consider a
discussion between John and Jamie John
is very curious and wants to know how
and where RPA is used in different
fields Jamie being a developer helps
Lear in understanding the RPA examples
even if you are curious to know the
applications of RPA then you at the
right place so let's get
started the first example is customer
service let's look at the problem
statement a customer representative must
understand and solve the customer
queries carry out the necessary actions
by switching between the various
softwares and applications and inform
the
customer must wait while the
representative is busy dealing with data
sometimes asking for information that
has already been requested this tends to
decrease customer satisfaction and
extends call
duration the solution requires
identifying frequently Asked customer
questions assessing customer
representative actions in response to
those questions and developing RPA
solutions to facilitate those
questions when several sets of
information need to be coordinated
across systems the customer service
represented can launch a bot the bot
completes all actions in seconds with
the Press of a button for frequently
asked questions a dashboard can be
created a customer service
representative will fill out the
necessary information to receive the
queries and Bs will use that data in
multiple systems to complete the
transaction let's look at an example
consider a scenario where a company was
providing support to the client and the
company was supposed to handle a large
number of calls
approximately 20,000 calls per month
which required a significant amount of
time spent in the support team because
of the system's complexity and
Executives average time was about 10
minutes as the system was inefficient
and slow resulting in a poor customer
service with the RPS solution the
organization gained a virtual team that
can complete the task in less than a
minute resulting in a drastic reduction
in an execution
time the RPA B performs the following
task loading a comprehensive customer
profile obtaining a detailed building
information User preferences and other
user information are being updated
resolving common but simple customer
issues let's look at the second example
Financial
Service Financial Service involves
compiling and combining financial
information from various departments and
storing the records in a system data is
manually extracted from a bank
statements to reconcile documents and
Link them to its forms using detailed
spreadsheets to complete the reports
business rely on Excel Legacy software
and manual labor which is tedious and
time
consuming solution robots can generate
invoices in seconds prompting clients to
pay more quickly RPA in financial
services tracks and standardizes and
validates payments process orders and
avoids errors and always on top of
things such a disciplined assistant
makes the customer's experience less
stressful adding value to the service
provider RPA in finance eliminates the
need for Endless email correspondence
and ensures a smooth payment approval
process matches invoices to responsible
parties and sets deadline
reminders automated data entry speeds up
the process and relieves human employees
of huge task this enables precise and
struct Ed invoice processing consider a
financial service company that's having
difficulty extracting data from
financial documents efficiently and
accurately in order to generate ratings
using RPA company implemented an
application that recognized and
processed data this enable decline to
quickly and cost effectively
automate the task performed by RPA bot
in financial service are investment
management reconcilation of bank
statements organizing the finances
record of accounts receivables and
payable the third example is HR service
this operation includes numerous routine
steps such as interview scheduling
record keeping resume screening
candidate short listing induction
training and onboarding firing and
firing place a significant burden on HR
and other support functions such as it
security and Facilities Management
particularly for medium and large
businesses while it is expensive to
build a solution that encompasses all of
these functions and completes the
necessary task for new or departing
employees some employees can be sloppy
with recording absences vacation or in
general using the existing absence
management
system so the possible solution for this
is RPA can be used to collect and Screen
resumes and online application forms
conduct through background checks and
compare the information to all the
relevant job requisitions this allows
the best candidates to be shortlisted
RPA can be used quickly to create offer
letters for new employees that are both
personalized and accurate can also
validate records by cross-checking data
such as absentees reports Against Time
logged in the corporate Network and
alerting when information is missing or
in
inconsistent Talent acquisition team of
a company automated aspects of
onboarding process for new employees
previously the onboarding paperwork was
completed manually by one person
consuming a significant amount of
employees time that could have been
spent on more valuable
work this type of work that no one wants
to do day after day the company
understands that an HR department wants
to provide a digital and straightforward
experience the task required a lot of
copy and paste activities with the
implementation of RPA The Bard completed
the onboarding paperwork in less time
allowing HRS to spend more time on
Corporate social responsibilities hiring
Talent initiatives and improving a
company's
reputation the task performed by RPA BS
in HR serves are screening resum√©s
onboarding of new hires attendance
management induction and training
employment management and Survey
report the fourth example is telecom
service the Telecommunications industry
involves high frequency of manual
repeative rules-based processes all of
which are critical for providing
appropriate Service delivery thus the
foundation of telecommunications is made
up of process that are highly amenable
to
automation for telecommunication
companies looking to improve their
customer service High reliability and
accuracy of process outcomes are
required solution the use of robotic
process Automation in Telecom reduces
error rates to close to zero improves
data quality improves customer service
and increases operational efficiency all
while contributing significantly to cost
reduction RPA technology can capture the
business process task performed by a
telecom company's employees based on the
employe action a well structured
workflow can be generated which serves
as a foundation for automated process by
mapping each process step with its
significant cost for manual execution it
is simple to determine which action
should be automated to maximize return
on the
investment consider an example a
telecommunications and Media company
decided to automate its order creation
and service removal process to cut cost
associated with the company Speed
Booster discount service and deal with a
massive amount of transactional data
with the implementation of RPA it it
becomes simple to automate the order
build process and service removal
activity the task performed by RPA bots
in Telecom service
are it checks on the credit and SIM card
swapping the solution of customer
complaints pting customer phone numbers
responding to questions from
Partners the fifth example is healthcare
service Healthcare Systems contain
numerous burdensome task that involves
significant resource allocation such as
claim management this results in high
operational cost and slow process every
industry has inefficiencies but few face
the healthcare industry's challenges
strict regulations regarding patient
data and lack of resources to deal with
such rules building takes time after a
healthcare service is provided due to
manual and repetitive task in the
management process management process
include document and data input
processing and valuation in addition to
the automating time consuming task
patients can schedule appointments
without the intervention of hospital
employees credit to RPA technology along
with eliminating the need of resource
allocation for scheduling by allowing
patients to reschedule appointments more
quickly this application can improve
customer relations RPA allows Healthcare
Providers to track and document each
process step in structured log files to
comply with external audits RPA improves
data confidentiality because BS handle
this
process let's consider an example daily
a healthcare organization deals with the
process of patient transaction Data
customer detailed recording claims to
the process and data reconcilation for
healthcare schemes are some of the
manual process they must streamline
daily the primary goal was to increase
the efficiency of existing approaches to
achieve greater accuracy with reduced
turnaround time robotic process
automation was implemented and the most
sign significant possible impact was
obtained RPA platform handled claims
processing and H data reconciliation
program Healthcare was able to reduce
turnaround time with this
solution the task performed by RPA BS in
healthcare service are appointment
scheduling Regulatory Compliance data
entry and supporting analytics to
improve treatment in this video we're
going to compare the most commonly used
RPA tools namely blue prism U by path
and automation anywhere so what's in it
for you first we learn why exactly RPA
into picture and then what exactly RPA
is lastly we'll compare the tools based
on trial version based Technologies
process designer accessibility macro
recorders architecture learning robots
accuracy reusability pricing and then
certification so without further Ado
let's begin and understand why was our
RP
introduced consider the process of
onboarding a recruit to your
organization the whole process will
involve tasks like creating a new user
account a new email address access
rights documents retrieval and so on so
instead of doing all of this manually
one can automate the process so with RPA
the user can automatically activate a
template for the onboarding workflow RPA
can help assess prepare and create new
join e data initiate mailing of offer
letters and streamline the information
across different
systems so what is RPA robotic process
automation is the use of software with
artificial intelligence and machine
learning capabilities to handle high
volume repeated tasks that previously
required humans to perform now some of
these tasks could include addressing
queries making calculations maintaining
records or even making transactions
now RPA tools are the software through
which one can configure tasks that are
to be automated so some of the widely
used tools are UI part Studio automation
anywhere blue prism work Fusion among
others now assuming you have a basic
understanding of RPA let's go on and
compare the popularly used
tools first up is trial version every
tool generally offers a trial version
for its users to get acquainted with the
tool this helps the users understand the
tool better and decide if they want to
proceed with using the tool blue prism
offers a free child version it's
available in two options either on the
cloud or on the local computer uipath
also offers a free edition both trial
and license versions are available
automation anywhere offers a free
community version and both Tri and
licensed versions are
available next up is base Technologies
based Technologies Define the technology
with which the software was built blue
prism is based on C uipath is based on
Microsoft vendors like SharePoint kibana
and elastic
starch while automation anywhere is
based on Modern Java
Technologies the Third third feature of
comparison is process designer blueprism
enables you to create design edit as
well as test business processes from the
visual business object now a vbo is like
an adapter provided by Blue prism for
communicating with an application each
visual business object implements a
specific set of operations on an
application's user
interface so these are basically like
objects that encapsulate a particular
functional logic
UI paath on the other hand acts as a
visual process designer with developer
friendly options now a visual process
designer is a dashboard consisting of
various tools through which the
developer can Define the automation
tasks automation anywhere is developer
friendly with the visual interface built
for business users along with Advanced
features for developers business users
and developers can work side by side to
build bot
they can see the visual interface and
code in a single
screen the next feature of comparison is
accessibility blueprism offers browser
based access only UI path and automation
anywhere on the contrary offer both
application based and browser based
accessibility in case of automation
anywhere the control room can be
accessed with a browser or a mobile
application this is the only platform
where use can create bots on any device
or any operating
system moving on to the next
feature learning now in case of Blue
prism the user should have the necessary
knowledge of programming he should be
able to create business objects and
manage them in the control center UI
path enables you to design automation
processes visually through diagrams the
developer need not know a programming
language in particular when it comes to
automation anywhere it is developer
friendly and offers both Visual and
programming features business users can
build Bots with the help of drag and
drop features beginners benefit from the
built-in product walk
through next up is robots now before we
jump in let's discuss what the different
types of bots are there are two types of
bots you have the front office Bots
whose deployment is in the user's
control
we also have back office Bots that can
run on locked machines from an
orchestrator the user may not be
actively involved in it's
working so moving on to the
comparison blue prism offers back office
automation only UI path and automation
anywhere offer both front and back
office Automation in case of automation
anywhere the HBC or the human bot
collaboration feature enables humans and
Bots to work together to complete a task
and also to manage exceptions and
escalations moving on the next feature
is macro recorder now the macro recorder
allows you to record keyboard activities
and mouse events to generate automation
scripts these activities are arranged
based on the order or sequence of
actions being performed on the screen so
moving on to the comparison blue prism
does not use a macro
recorder uip paath makes use of a macro
recorder to enable fast process mapping
automation anywhere offers a universal
recorder so that the user need not
select different recorders for different
tasks moving on to the next feature
architecture an application that runs on
the client site and accesses the remote
server for information uses the client
server architecture whereas an
application that runs entirely on a web
browser uses the web architecture in
case of a client server architecture the
user interaction with the server is
always through a user interface or
application on the client side on the
other hand in a web application the user
interaction is Thoroughly through a web
browser now blueprism and uipath both
incorporate a client server architecture
automation anywhere incorporates a cloud
native web based microservices
architecture it is the only platform
that provides a complete digital worker
Solution on the web users with any skill
level can instantly start building
robots on a browser without any heavy
installation the next feature is
accuracy blueprism is accurate for
desktop web and Citrix automation UI
part shines and Citrix automation
designed for BPU automation
and automation anywhere shines in CX
automation with AI Sense
Technology well any automation solution
built using a virtual desktop or built
to work in Virtual desktops is called
Citrix
automation moving on to the next feature
reusability blue prism consists of a
library of business objects that can be
reused across multiple methods it also
offers High reliability
in the case of uip paath the processes
can be used for various synthesis
services with several workfl modules as
a result uipath offers a high degree of
usability and moderate
reliability in the case of automation
anywhere apart from the standard common
Library users can develop custom actions
upload and manage packages in their
Enterprise control room every bort
created in automation anywhere is
reusable the bot store has hundreds of
pre-configured bots and digital workers
to Kickstart a user RPA
Journey next up is pricing blue prism
has a high cost of acquisition it also
offers restricted training uip paath
offers effective Pleasant entry-level
pricing automation anywhere offers
attractive entry-level
pricing its users also experience the
lowest total cost of ownership ship
because of its native capabilities and
web- based
architecture moving on to the last
feature
certifications blue prism offers several
certifications like blue prism
professional developer blue prism ROM
architect among others uip part provides
free online training and certification
programs like RPA developer Advanced
certification automation anywhere
university offers free online training
and certification programs for both
students and advanced practitioners
professionals can also Avail job Ro
specific
certifications there are several RPA
tools in the market today however
blueprism automation anywhere and uip
paath are leading the market let's get
started with what is uip
paath uip paath is a robotic process
automation tool for large scale endtoend
automation for an accelerated business
change
it provides solution for business to
automate routine office
activities it uses a variety of methods
to transform tedious task into automated
process Daniel D and Marius Tika
Romanian entrepreneurs founded UI path
in Bucharest in 2005 the first uip part
desktop automation product line was
launched in 2013 giving business RPA
tools to automate manual and repetitive
back office task let's look at the
features of of uip
paath drag and drop workflow the user of
uipath will develop visual process steps
by dragging and dropping related task
onto the graphical workspace then with
the user interface properties they can
transform those process steps into a
visual
workflow users may also use the recorder
wizard in the UI part tool to build web
based or application
workflows the next feature is record and
Playback the user can use this function
to record actions and trans for them
into automated process
series UI path has the following types
of recording
options basic recording it focuses on
automating single task and is commonly
used to develop each activity's complete
selector desktop recording it can be
used for a variety of actions as well as
actions
development web recording it is a common
tool for viewing and recording web page
activities Citrix recording it is very
widely used for recording stuff like and
virtualized environment
automation next we have inbuilt
activities in uipath uip paath comes
with over 300 built-in activities
covering a wide range of process
Automation and application integration
design
task these activities are found in
activity Spain which covers most
designed tasks such as data extraction
data entry and
automation next we have advaned scraping
options scraping data from web pages and
applications is easier with UI path
screen scraping furthermore the data
screen scraping wizard helps in scraping
of data with a repetitive structure
scraping solution Works flawlessly with
any program including net Java flash PDF
Legacy and
sap next we have high security and
robustness we can create super smart
durable robots with uip path with a
simple visual canvas everyone in the
company can use Bots uip paath offers
high security Auto login functionality
to run the Bots and operates with a
locked screen allowing automated process
to run in complete
privacy let's look at the components of
uipath the first component we have
uipath Studio uipath robot and uipath
orchestrator let's look at them one by
one this is how a uip studio looks like
uip studio is a user fendly interface
inside the tool that allows user to
visually plan and design various
automation process through diagrams
using drag and drop functionality these
diagrams are merely a structural
reflection of specific task that must be
completed this is the activity pane in
the UI part Studio it consists of
project activities and
Snippets this is the ribbon tab it
consists of saving options opening new
files debugging files recording screen
scraping data scraping and many more we
will explore this in the demo
section next we have output put pan
where output is being
displayed and we have the properties pan
where the properties of each activity is
shown
here the next component is uipath robot
after you have built your process the
next move is to put into action in the
uipath studio uipath robots are used to
translate the process into task which
are then executed these robots are used
to assign various task and carry them
out in the same manner as humans but
without human interference when given
operation occurs on the computer uipath
robots are programmed to begin executing
task
automatic next we have uipath
orchestrator the orchestrator is a web-
based application in uipath it has
features like deploying monitoring
scheduling and controlling automated
Bots and process it's a centralized
forum for managing and controlling all
software
Bots let's look at the architecture of
uipath it consist of two sections the
client side and the server side and the
three layers let us look at them one by
one we will first look at the client
side and the server side client side uip
paath components are those that the user
or developer can communicate with
directly uipath Studio uipath robot
browser and uipath agent are usually
included uipath's backend operation are
considered server side the task and
workflows that a user produces are saved
in the databases
uip paath orchestrator chooses the
necessary function and the software
robots to carry out the cod's task the
robots locks and statistics are stored
in the back end locks are useful for
analyzing robot performance and
detecting errors in them the two
elements comprise the uip path robot
agent support for UI path and the execut
a service for uip path the agent support
for uip paath is the service in uip path
that serves as the mediator between the
client side and the server side of uip
paath all of the information and data
are conveyed via the Handler messages
are also logged into the orchestrator
before being moved to the SQL Server the
service can be used to search all of the
currently available task in the device
tray it also can change device settings
and start and stop the current task
execute a service for uipath in this the
software robots use this service to
carry out the task specified in the
windows session now let us look at the
three layers first one is the the
presentation layer this uip path
components that are open to the users
make up the client layer uipath Studio
robots browsers uipath agent and
executors for example a user or a
developer may use these components to
design and create different task that
can be automated computer robots are
commonly used to complete this task the
client layer is an another name for the
presentation layer let us look at the
service layer the UI Parts architectures
most significant sheet the cloud layer
shows all server information the uip
paath orchestrator is the most
significant part of the server layer
when the robots can perform the task the
entire project is periodically uploaded
to the server within the aid of an
orchestrator the project is often
carried out through several structures
the orchestrator is in charge of the
whole band it keeps track of the project
development schedule software robots for
execution and produces summary reports
based on the filtered par meter it
assists in the synchronization of
software robots so that they can
continue to perform routine task it
helps our project meet project
requirements service levels and
deadlines thanks to its web based
management
system now let us look at the
persistence layer database servers make
up the bulk of this sheet during this
layer all of the robots configuration
information is saved users insert data
robots assigned task logging information
and sets among the other items into the
orchest stratus configuration details
furthermore persistency layer is in
charge of keeping the log information
updated by the uip paath agent Services
elastic search is used to store this
locks the locks are primarily useful for
locating and correcting errors process
level data is usually saved in
relational database management system
such as SQL Server this makes processing
logs from the vast volume of data a lot
simpler hence the cues task are often
taken care by the persistency layer
let's look at some of the applications
of uip
paath in sales in sales UI path is used
to generate invoice this is an example
of data replication in action both CRM
and accounting systems must have the
same sales details ports can update
accounting records prepar and and
invoices from the appropriate email
addresses instead of manually
replicating data it is also used in
keeping scorecards up to date companies
that do not have HR and CRM systems
integrated can use RPA bards to ensure
that CRM adjustments are submitted to
scorecards in real time allowing sales
reps to track their progress it is used
in CRM updating a new class of solution
is evolving to incorporate their email
call and other contact data into CRM a
simple bot could be return to update
your CRM records with customer contact
information if you can't find a suitable
solution for using the CRM
systems next it is used in banking in
banking it is used to check
kyc though dedicated kyc Solutions are
evolving RPA Bots can be used to
automate portions of the kyc process if
your organization does not want to use
one a case may be referred to an
employee in the event of an edge case
that requires human involvement it is
used in sanction of loans like most
document process activities this method
is appropriate to RP automation because
complex business logic can be embedded
in Bots which can partially automate
loan decisions and the manual process
that follow it is used in execution of
trade RPA Bots may be useful in
situations where Legacy systems are
incapable of storing complex limit
orders however this is more a Band-Aid
solution in the long run switching to a
sophisticated and competent trading
system will certainly be a smart
investment consider ing how it could
increase trading and minimize Trader
workload next it is used in healthcare
in healthcare it is used for appointment
scheduling the RPA bot makes appointment
for patient based on their diagnosis
doctor availability location and other
factors such as financial statement and
insurance details it is used in
supporting analytics to improve patient
treatment RPA Bots May collect a variety
of medical information RPA BS for
example can use patient data to a third
party Healthcare analytics provider to
provide more reliable diagnosis and
better patient care without violating
any confidentiality regulations let's
look at the benefits of uip
path increase productivity UI path
automates with quick speed and
accessibility consider an RPA B that
allows a worker to produce a monthly
report in 20 minutes instead of manually
taking 4 hours the company's
productivity could increase as a result
of process
automation next we have high efficiency
RPS software does not need a break it
can operate 24 hours a day a single RPA
robot may replace two to five full-time
workers if not more robots can do the
same amount of work in less time or more
work at the same time than
humans customer experience in RPA
adopted business routine and repetitive
and boring task are assigned to robot
allowing employees to focus more on
Customer Service Company may meet
consumer needs with the help of
professional and knowledgeable
employes highly secure there is no risk
of information leakage from one
component to another because it performs
single task as a result data access is
strictly monitored and
reported cost effective uip path has
minimal operating cost and more
efficient use of it
resources let's look at the top comp is
hiring uip part
developers infosis IBM Deo ey
KPMG Tata Tech Mahindra and cap
J let's look at the salary trends for
uip part
developers the average pay scale for a
uip part developer in India is 545,000
rupees uip part developer salary ranges
from
362,000 Rupees to 1 million
in USA the uip developer salary ranges
from
$58,000 to
$107,000 and the average salary is
$76,000 let's look at a demo consider a
scenario where you have multiple Excel
files you want to combine the data in
single file in this demo we will merge
two Excel files into a single Excel file
and send it over an email let's create
automation to two Excel files using uip
path from here we can open a new project
or existing project stored locally or on
version control system with the click we
can open a new project or create a new
project from a template uip paath offers
many templates depending on what you're
trying to do for now let us start with a
blank
project so we'll open a blank project
here so we'll open our main
workflow then we'll go to new and select
a new sequence we can do it using a
flowchart as well but for now I'll show
you doing a sequence so we'll open the
sequence and we'll name the sequence
since we are merging two files I'll name
it as merging
files and I'll create
it so we'll go to the activity
span firstly we need to drag and drop a
read CSV activity so so search for read
CSV so drag and drop read CSV activity
since we are using two Excel files so we
need to read CSV
activities and read from the file we
need to select the file
location so we'll select the file
location sample CSV file
1 and at the file two we'll select
another file
location sample CSV
file at the output side we'll create a
variable and name it as slore file
1 similarly for another read
CSV we'll create a variable and name it
as a
_ File
2 so this much is done now we need an
assign activity so we'll search for
assign
activity so we'll drag and
drop assign activity has two parameters
two and enter and
expression so in the two we'll create a
variable
name name it as
merged and and in the
expression write an expression say SL
slore file
1 do
clone why are we using a clone function
the Clone function creates a new data
table with same structure but does not
copy the data oops it's showing an error
here so what's the
error so we need to assign the variable
type to
be system. dat. data
table here we go error has
gone so after using the assigned
activity we need to merge the data table
so we need merge data table activity so
search for merge
data table here we go drag and drop
it we need to much data table
activities so drag and
drop and specify the destination and
Source
here destination is the
mergel and the source is the lore file 1
for the First Data M
table similarly for second merge data
table destination remains
same Source will change to slore file
2 so this is done so next we need to
drag and drop a right CSV
file right CSV file creates an output
file in which you want to merge the two
files so search
for right
CSV here we go drag and drop
it so choose the path create the file so
you can see there is no output file here
so we'll create the output file now
which is an empty f file so output.
CSV so we have created an output
file so right from we'll write it as
merged we need the data from
[Music]
merged so the output file is created so
now we need to send the file over and
mail so for that we need to drag and
drop a get password activity
so we'll search for get password
activity here we go drag and drop
it
and once you get this get password
activity enter the password Here enter
your password email ID
password so there is a prerequisite when
you use get
password to receive the mail go to your
Google account in Google account go to
your security option and in security
there is an option called less secure
app access turn that on I'll repeat turn
on the less secure app access okay once
the get password is
done go to the result section in the
result section right click and create a
variable name it something maybe
SSS so I created a variable there so we
need an last activity now that is smt
mail
message
SMTP mail
message I and drop
it so in the host port and enter This
Server so the server you have to enter
it as
SMTP do Gmail all should be in the
double
codes
smtp.gmail.com
and enter the port number
as
587 and enter your email ID
here which
is your own email ID I'll enter
my once you enter the email ID enter the
password
what we had
created so that's done so enter the
email ID
here enter the subject whatever you
want so I'll enter it as merged
data merged Excel
files enter the body
so we'll attach the
file so what is the file which we are
attaching
here so we are attaching the output file
what we have named it as output. CSV
file so that's it we'll run the program
we'll run the
code sample execution has started
and within the 10 seconds sample
execution has ended so we'll go and
check if we have received the mail so
this is my email
ID here we go we have received the email
here let's open this let's open the
output
file here we go you can see the data is
being
merged and if you go to the file where
the documents were stored here you go
this were the two files the sample file
1 and Sample File 2 and this is the mer
file which was created let me show you
the sample file
1 and Sample File
2 so this is the sample file one with 10
rows and this is sample File 2 which
also has 10
rows so this is file two with 10 rows
and file one with 10
rows and here we go this this is the
output file which has both 10 10 rows
merged here here we go it is sent over
and made in this video we will be
looking at the installation of uip so
let us see the
requirements we will first look at the
hardware requirements the CPU should at
least have a processor of 1.4 GHz 32-bit
configuration or it's recommended to
have a 1.8 GHz 64-bit
configuration the device is recommended
to have a ram of 8 GB if not at least a
minimum of 4 GB let us look at the
software requirements if you're using a
Windows operating system then Windows
should be of version 8.1 or 8.1 n or 10
or 10n and the Windows Server should be
of 2012 R2 2016 or 2019 versions another
prequest site is to have NET Framework
of minimum of
4.5.2 version
installed let us look at the additions
the different additions that uipath
offers uipath offers two types of
editions Community Edition and
Enterprise Edition Community Edition is
for the developers and small teams who
are just starting on their automation
Journey the Enterprise Edition is
further classified into three types
Enterprise Studio Edition Enterprise
Cloud Edition and Enterprise server
Edition so Enterprise Studio Edition is
for individual Enterprise developers who
want to experiment with uip part Studio
prise cloud is a cloud-based deployment
of entire RPA Enterprise platform for
any size business Enterprise server on
premises deployment for entire
Enterprise automation platform for large
scale
business let us look at the different
profiles in uip uip part Studio X uip
part studio and uod Studio Pro uod
Studio X is for business users if you're
not a developer but if you want to
automate a simple task then it is easy
to use a studio X uip path Studio it is
for RPA developers build complex
automation that is run by attended or
attended Robots uip part Studio Pro it
is for the specialized developers
automate with the AI Advanced RPA
features testing tools and sophisticated
coding services so we will look at the
installation let us install
uipath go to any one of the browser and
search for uip part.com
this will take you to the official uip
paath
website here you can see try uip paath
for
free click
here since I have already registered
before it is showing as continue to
existing organization if you're visiting
this website for the first time then you
might have to register or sign in using
an email account after signing in and
filling all the details you can
continue here you can see download uip
part
Studio click on this and download the
uip part Studio here you go the uip part
Studio setup file is getting download
downloaded once the UI path file is
downloaded run the setup file and here
you can see the UI path is getting
installed after installation it will ask
for a license Select Community license
which is
free after selecting the license you
need to choose a profile there are three
profiles uip part Studio Pro which is
the Advan Studio IDE it has features
like testing tools Advanced RPA feat
features and coding
Services another profile is uip part
Studio it is for developers who have
preer programming
experience and the last profile is the
uipath studio X it is for the people who
don't have any programming experience so
we will select uipath Studio X for now
next uipath will ask you to update the
channel you can either select this table
version or preview version we will
select thisable version for now after
you select the versions you need to
select the source control plugins you
can enable G version control system or
Apache sub version and Azure devop
server uip paath provides a short
introduction video tutorials to learn
how to build automations following
step-by-step instructions and an academy
to take free training on the uip paath
academy so that's it you have success
fully installed UI part Studio from here
you can open a new project new template
and start building the first Automation
in this video we will learn about uip
part studio in depth and understand it's
working with a demo so what is uip
paath now RPA is a technology with which
human tasks can be automated to
facilitate this a tool is required uip
paath is one such tool among others that
are used to create Bots with the help of
visual processes and
diagrams it provides complete end to-end
automation calling it hyper automation
UI path was founded by Daniel dines and
Mario stka in
2005 uip paath is specially used for
Windows process automation it automates
repetitive tasks and lastly uipath
offers drag and draw functionalities to
make it easy to
use now since there are so many other
tools like blue prism automation
anywhere in the market
what makes uipath stand out so let's
look at the advantages of
uipath first uipath has an activity
Library this library has several
built-in activities and features like
display message input box and so on this
improves the customer experience we will
deal with these activities in the demol
later next up is security RPA deals with
a variety of information like credit
card number numbers financial
information and passwords uipath offers
extensive security since all the
information can be encrypted and stored
on a centralized
server up next we have
recorders so uipath uses a micro
recorder to record the user actions such
as Mouse clicks and keystrokes once the
actions are recorded they can be
emulated using emulators for quick
automation third party
integration uip paath can be integrated
with third party plugins like IBM Watson
and Google
plugins then we have powerful
debugging uip part Studio comes with a
debug component that helps find and
locate problems easily in complex
workflows this is useful for viewing the
execution of each activity to verify
what data it gets and if there are
errors in producing
outputs now let's understand the various
uip paath
products first up is UI
Studio this is the platform to create
the Bots this product consists of all
the necessary drag and drop activities
and a robost UI to help develop bots of
your choice now the UI part Studio
consists of the GUI dashboard it offers
a visual dashboard with activities like
send email display message and so
on then we have types of recorders uip
Studio offers various types of recorders
to record actions on multiple
platforms then then we have logging and
exception handling it offers various
options for debugging and exception
handling such as debug open logs slow
step Etc and finally we have reusable
components the user can create reusable
components to publish them together as
libraries next we have the uipath robots
all the automation task that created are
run by uipath robots there are two types
of robots
attended robots and unattended robots
attended robots work with you to speed
up service desk and help desk it is used
in activities where human involvement is
the key unattended robots operate
without human touch maximizing cost and
performance benefits for any variety of
back office
tasks lastly we have the uipath
orchestrator the orchestrator is like a
centralized entity where you can deploy
secure manage all your automation tasks
here are the steps involved first you
create a bot now you create a project
and publish it as a process for further
use once a process is created it is
assigned to a specific robot to execute
in an environment this collectively
constitutes a
job now let's move on to the
architecture of uiip paath so on the top
you have the client layer consist in of
uipath studio and the uipath
robot now the uipath robot has two parts
one is the uipath agent service which
displays all the available jobs in the
system tree and the other one is the
uipath executor service which is used to
run the jobs in one Windows
session the server layer receives the
robot once it is ready for execution
with the help of the orchestrator you
can run the project on different
PCS the orchestrator monitors the
deploys configures Q management and
logging lastly we have the persistent
layer which consists of the databases it
takes care of the cues and holds
information about the robot
configuration and their assigned
processes now that we know what UI path
is let's acquaint ourselves with its
user interface and understand its
components better so this is what the
typical interface looks like first we
have the ribbon it consists of three
tabs whole home design and
debug home is where you start a new
project from predefined templates or
open a project you recently worked on by
default the projects are created in the
location shown
below next is the design
tab design tab adds sequences flowcharts
and state machines to your project it
installs and manages activity packages
it builds interactions with UI elements
and then publishes your work to
orchestrator finally is
debug it debugs your workflow while
using debugging tools to set up break
points monitor the execution of activity
step-by step and adjust the debugging
speed next on the screen is
tools so the tools tab can be used for
installing extensions from chrome
Firefox Edge Java silver light Citrix
and windows remote desktop and is also
used for launching the UI Explorer and
project dependencies Mass update
tool then we we have
settings the settings tab has options
for changing the interface language
theme setting Global preferences and
managing activity
feeds so you have general settings then
there is settings for design locations
manage resources and finally license and
profile up next you have Help The Help
tab directs you to product documentation
release notes online resources the
community forum and the RPA
Academy after that you have the recorder
the recorder component in uipath studio
allows the user to record UI Mouse
movements and keyboard activities to
generate automation
scripts after that you have scraping so
uip part Studio supports two types of
scraping one is screen scraping and the
next one is data scraping so screen
scraping is programmatic collection of
visual data and data scraping is the
extra action of structured data from an
application then you have user
events user events records events such
as Mouse clicks and
keystrokes then you have variables so
variables hold different types of data
these variables can change over time
uipath makes an easy provision to create
and remove unused
variables on the bottom left you have
project so the project panel enables you
to view the components of the current
project add folder open the file
location manage dependencies and adjust
project settings beside it you have
activities panel so the activities panel
shows available activities that can be
added to the current workflow users can
use the search box to find activities
navigate through them using navigation
keys and
press you also have the Snippets panel
which enables you to easily reuse
automation it includes by default
multiple samples and Snippets
to the bottom right you have the
properties panel which is contextual and
enables you to view and change the
properties of a selected
activity you also have the outline panel
which displays the project hierarchy all
available variables and nodes you can
highlight activities in this panel by
selecting them in the designer panel the
output panel enables you to display the
output of the log message or right line
activities among other things exceptions
for packages are also displayed in this
panel
panel so now that you have understood
the interface of uipath let's look at
the companies using
uipath so you have Accenture cap jini
cognizant atos and delo to name a
few now we'll do a demo to automate a
task using uod
Studio so here is what we are going to
do in the demo we'll create an automated
process to fetch data from a website
wherein the bot would extract data like
the name of the person the phone number
and the email ID this data will store it
in an Excel seat and send it over an
email now let's get
started now to do this demo we'll be
using the fake name generator website to
Generate random data of people and store
this data set in an Excel sheet now if I
had to do this manually I would first
create an Excel sheet so let me open an
Excel workbook
I'll create a blank
workbook so this is where I'll put my
data if I had to do it
manually so now let me take you to the
fake name generator website so I'll
search for fakename generator.com
so this is the website where you can
generate fake
names now if I had to store this data in
Excel I would manually copy paste each
and every detail and paste it onto the
Excel
sheet so for that first I had to create
columns like
name
then phone
number and this in then
email after that I had to come back to
this and
copy each of these
fields the
name if I had to take the phone
number so I would copy
this and similarly for the email address
as
well for one record it is fine what if
if are asked to fetch 100 records or say
200 records then this method is not at
all
feasible it is timec consuming and
inefficient you need to find a way where
you can automate this task of fetching
records uip path is a solution for this
so let's see how we can automate this
task using the uipath
studio so I'll click on open main
workflow first we need to direct UI path
to go to the fake name generator website
for that we need the sequence activity
so let me search for sequence here so
under
activities I'll search for
sequence
and I'll drag it
here after that I need to open the
website in a web browser so for that let
me search for another activity called
open browser so under
activity I look for open
browser so I'll drag it on the sequence
itself now it is asking you to insert
the URL of the
website and it must be within double
codes so I'll go to my
website copy paste the
URL I have to give this UR URL within
double codes then I'll paste
it now we need to select the name of the
browser where you want to open this
website so under input and browser type
I'll choose
Chrome now let me go ahead and run this
file
so under debug I have run
file I'll click on it
so as you can see the website is
automatically opened in a new window on
Chrome I'll close
this the next step in the process is to
tell the program how many records we
want to fetch from the website for this
we will create an input dialog box so
under activities
I'll search for
input so here you get the input dialog
box I'll drag and drop it on the
top now it is asking us to give the
details so I'll put it within double
codes say enter
the details of customers or say people
and then
here I'll give enter the number of
Records you want to
fetch
now now I have to store this information
in a
variable so under
variables I'll create a variable and
name it as
total is the total number of Records I
want to
fetch similarly under output result I'll
give the same variable name as
total now we need to fet the details a
number of times repeatedly say for 10
times or 20 times or 50 times to do this
operation I'll be using a dowi
loop so to use a do while
loop I'll first search for do
while and I'll drop it to the do section
of the
sequence as you can see do while has two
components one is the body and the other
one is
condition the body has the things that
you want the program to do
the condition is where you evaluate
certain conditions every time when the
program has to do a
task so for every step or iteration it
will check if the condition is true or
not and go inside the body of the
loop now for doing this we need to
assign a
variable
so let's name the variable
as Val
and I'll change the variable type to
integer and I'll make the scope to
sequence I'll also assign a default
value of
zero now we'll compare this Val to the
variable
total so the condition I'll give is
check if Val is less than total
so under
condition I'll give Val less
than
total so every time the value of Val is
less than the total it will keep
fetching the records from the
website you can see it has thrown some
error now this is
because our total variable is of type
string while the Val variable is of type
integer
so you can't compare an
integer with a string
variable so that would be absurd we need
to convert the total variable to an
integer using the cint
function so here itself I'll write C int
which is convert this total variable to
integer you can see the error is
gone the next thing I want to do is if
the value of the Val variable is is less
than total I'll increment the value of
Val to
one so to do that I'll use an activity
called
assign so I'll check for
assign and I'll drag it onto the
body so here I'll give
Val equals to Val + 1
this will make sure the value of Val
increases by one every time there is a
new record inserted it will continue
until the value of Val no longer matches
the
total so the next job is to extract
information from the website to do this
we will use the get full text
activity so I'll search for get full
text
here and I'll
drag it right below the assign
activity now you need to select the
information which you want so first I
want to get the name I'll click on the
indicate element inside browser and then
select the name of the
person so I'll click on
this
and I'll click on the
name there you go now we need to store
this name in a variable so I'll create a
variable so under variable I'll create a
variable called
name and in the output
also I'll give the same variable
name next I want to F the phone number
of the
POR so I'll again select get full text
and I'll drag
it
here I'll click on indicate element
inside
browser so I'll scroll
down and I'll select the phone number of
the
person so we have selected the phone
number similarly I'll store this phone
number in a variable
so I'll create a variable
called phore
number
and the output text box also will give
the same variable as phone uncore
number after that I want to get the
email address of the
person so I'll continue with the same
drill
I'll select the activity once again
which is get full text and I'll drag it
right
here I'll click on indicate element
inside
browser and
now we'll select the email address which
is this
one
similarly I'll store the email address
in a variable called email
ID and and in the output also we'll give
the same variable name which is email
ID now we need to store the names phone
numbers and email IDs into an Excel seat
for that we need to create a data
table so I'll search for data table
under
activities let me go ahead and do
that so I'll
choose build data table and drag it
right below the input dialogue
box now this table has to be assigned to
a variable so let me do
that let me give a variable name
as
fetch underscore data _
table
similarly in the output also will give
the same variable name which is fetch
dataor
table one thing I need to tell you here
is we'll change the variable
type so I'll select browse for
types and look for data
table which
is system.
dat I'll drill
down and search for data table which is
this
one click
okay we need to assign the column names
to this data table so let me now do
that I'll
uncheck all this and select the columns
so we will give the First Column name as
name
itself click on okay select one more
column give it
as phone
number click okay and then we need the
email address
I'll hit
okay so we are
done so first the data table is created
and then we'll write this data to an
Excel
file after that we need to create rows
for the data
table for that I will search for
row under activities I'll search search
for
row
and I'll
select add
row I'll select add data
row I'll place it right below where we
have created all the
variables now I want to add a
for the name phone number and email
address so under input I'll select array
row I'll expand this and within curly
braces I'll give my variable
names so those would be
name give a comma and then phone
underscore number
comma
email _
ID click
okay I made a mistake it should be
within curly
braces okay
now to tell the table to which it should
write the row two we need to assign
under the data table
name so under data table I'll give fetch
uncore dataor
table for every iteration a record will
be added to the table then we need to
refresh the page to extract the next set
of information so for
that I will add another activity called
click
and drop it right below the add data
row so under activities I'll search for
click and I'll
select Mouse click and I'll drop it
right below this
one now we need to indicate where do we
want to click from the
browser so click on
this go on top
and select generate so we want to click
on
generate next I will write the data to a
CSV
file so I'll search for write CSV under
activities
and I'll drop it towards the end of the
sequence right
here now you need to give the location
where you want to place this file on
your system and give the source from
where it will take the
information so let's give the location
where you want to place this file I'll
place it on my desktop
itself I'll name this as
fetch save
it and
for the
source I'll give fetch uncore dataor
table we are all set now let's run
it so under debug file I'll select run
file
I'll enter the number of Records so let
me fetch 10 records click on
okay now this might take some time
I believe it has run successfully now
let me check for my CSV file that should
ideally be on my
desktop there you go so we have the CSV
file let me open it
you can see it has
extracted 10 rows of
data and three columns namely name of
the person the phone number and the
email
address so we are done with the first
task of automatically generating data
from a website the next task is to send
this file over email now to send an
email you need the SMTP activity
so
under activities I'll search for
SMTP I'll drag it right below
here now we need to configure
this I'll be actually sending this email
from someone else's email ID to my email
ID so under two I'll give my email
address which
is within codes I'll type abijit do
biswal
at simply
learn.net
I'll give a
subject
as
automatic data
extraction under body I'll give
something like hi please find
attached now we have to attach the
file we have to give the location of the
file here
so let me go to
properties
and I'll select this
cancel past this
here followed
by the file name which is
fetch.
CSV I'll click on
okay after
that I have to give the host port number
which is
465
and the
and the server
name which is
smtp.gmail.com
under log on I'll give the senders email
ID and have to give the password as
well under the receiver it's my email ID
which is A.B simply learn.net for the
sender I'll give the email ID as chinmai
do theps simply learn.net
and I'll give a dummy name chinai
so we are almost done let me now go to
debug file and run
this it is asking to enter the number of
Records I'll give five click on
okay this will take some time so let's
just wait
so we have successfully run our
program now let me check my inbox if I
have got any mail from
chinmai so there you go I've got this
email and Below you can see
the fetch. CSV file attached and it has
five
rowes what is uipath
orchestrator uipath orchestrator is a
web application that allows you to
orchestrate the execution of repeative
business process by uip path robots
orchestrator manages the creation
monitoring scheduling and controlling of
automated BS and process it serves as a
point of integration for third party
Solutions and
applications it's a centralized forum
for managing and controlling all
software boards it can manage the entire
robot
Fleet let's look at the orchestrator
capabilities provisioning provisioning
establishes and maintains the connection
between the robots and the web
application deployment deployment
ensures that the correct package
versions are delivered to the assigned
robots for
execution configuration configuration
looks after the maintenance and delivery
of the robot environments and process
configuration Q's Q's ensures that the
workload is distributed automatically
across
robots monitoring monitoring manages
user permissions and keeps track of
robot recognition
details logging loging locks are stored
and indexed in a SQL database
interconnectivity interconnectivity
functions as a centralized contact point
for third-party Solutions or
applications let's look at the
orchestrator use cases the strength of
uipath orchestrator comes from its
ability to control the entire robot
Fleet let's look at the different use
cases the first is attended this type of
robot is activated by user events and
operates at the same workstation as a
humor orchestrator is used with attended
robots to provide a centralized process
deployment and logging
medium unattended in Virtual
environments robots can run unattended
and automate a variety of process the
orchestrator is in charge of remote
execution control scheduling and support
for work cues in addition to the
attended robot
capabilities Studio or Studio X they
have unattended robot capabilities is
but it should only be used to connect
your studio or Studio x to the
orchestrator for creation purposes non
production robots are similar to
unattended robots but they can only be
used for research and development
attended unattended nonproduction studio
and Studio X robots can all be operated
from a single location let's look at the
orchestrator user
interface dashboard enables us to see
charts and statistics illustrating usage
information for all the orchestrator
components like process assets cues
schedules robots jobs and
transactions let's look at the tenant
context to view and control the tenant
level entities in your orchestrator pick
tenant from the sidebar menu with only
one instance of the orchestrator
multi-tenancy allows you to isolate data
these features help you to to automate
various departments within your
organization while also ensuring that
orchestrator data is approved according
to your preferences please bear in mind
that all of the information is contained
in the same database let's look at the
components one by one robots a robot is
an execution host that runs UI pass
Studio process you can add robots edit
them display their status and license
State adjust the envir onment they are
assigned to and change their runtime
settings on the robots tab you can also
see the logs that a single robot has
created process can be downloaded and
executed automatically by robots using
custom settings while building or
editing a robot you can configure
automatic process downloading logging
level font smoothing and resolution in
the settings
tab
folders folders give you a fine grain
control over automation
and their Associated organizations as
well as staff through the entire
organization in the orchestrator there
are two types of folders classic and
modern classic folders functionality is
allowed by default while modern folders
functionality must be enabled by the
host or the tenant
administrator
users a user is an individual with
access dependent capabilities whose View
and control of the orchestrator are
determined by the access rights granted
users can be developed and managed
either locally in the orchestrator or an
external
directory roles in orchestrator the
roles tab help you to handle user
permissions The orchestrator View that a
consumer has is defined by the role they
have been assigned a function allows you
to control view edit create and delete
permissions on all orchestrator pages
and
modules machines a machine page allows
you to provision and control machines in
preparation for registering robots with
the
orchestrator it list all of the machines
that are currently in operation as well
as their forms it allows you to create
your computer whether it's standard or a
template packages all projects published
from uip part studio and those manually
imported are displayed on the packages
tab you can display all available
versions of any package on the packages
tab as well as their status claims and
release notes if they are
available ml skills ml skills retrieves
and request machine learning skills from
the AI fabric service it authenticates
the robot that is running the machine
learning
skills audit the audit page shows the
audit Trail for all acts taken by
orchestrator entities several criteria
including component user action and time
can be used to filter the data on the
audit page credential stores a
credential store is named location
inside a safe store such as cyber Arc
where you can get robot credentials and
credential assets when you need them at
DET tenant stage orchestrator encourages
the users of several credential
stores web hooks web hooks make it
easier to integrate your uip path
automation with the rest of your app
ecosystem you can subscribe to the
orchestrator events and have them sent
to the external DCM BPM or CRM solutions
to notify various users about the new
queue items that can be processed cause
failures or process
updates license robot licensing is
available both both at the host and the
Tenant level in the orchestrator on the
license list this enables you to shorten
your deployment time and handle
activation from a single location within
a single click you can trigger renew
delete and delegate
licenses alerts notifications for robots
Q objects triggers task procedures and
activities are shown on the alerts tab
you will receive updates from all of
your folders on this tab and you will
not be able to choose more granular
options alerts are sent in real time and
can be categorized as info success War
error or
fatal
settings you can adjust various settings
on the setting tab including the time
zone email warning information account
information package feeds and
interactive authentication now let us
look with respect to the folder context
from the sidebar menu pick any available
folder to view and control the entities
within that
folder automations contains the
following tabs process jobs triggers and
locks the process page allows you to
build new process from uploaded packages
manage existing process and keep all of
your process up to date with the latest
package versions this allows you to
spread packages through the entire
organization uses and robots and execute
process more quickly from the job's task
jobs on an uip paath robot a job
represents the execution of a procedure
the execution of a job can be started in
either attended or unattended mode on
attended robots you can't run a job from
the orchestrator and they can't run
under a locked
computer triggers triggers allow you to
run jobs in in a predefined sequence at
predetermined intervals and if a new
products are added to your
cues logs the locks page shows you all
of the robot locks in all of the folders
you have access to to access the locks
tab you must have view permission on the
locks locks are kept in the local
database if the orchestrator is
inaccessible monitoring monitoring
contains the following tabs machines
process qes and SLA
machines display information about all
the existing run times on an aggregate
basis and allows you to check the
overall health of each runtime process
the process page allows you to build new
process from the uploaded packages
managing existing process and keep all
of your process up to date qes a queue
is a storage container that can
accommodate an infinite number of
objects multiple types of data such as
invoice information or customer
information may be stored in Q objects
other system such as sap or sales force
can be used to process this data by
default the data stored in and output
from the Q items is in free form SLA
display SLA and risk SLA information for
all cues in the current folder with SLA
predictions allowed this allows you to
determine if the newly added queue items
will be processed on time at and if so
what resources you will need to devote
to ensure that their SLA is not
violated when the SLA is in danger of
not being reached you will be adequately
informed so that you can make the
required
changes cues cues contains the following
tabs cues and review
request in the cues Pages click on the
review request tab to show revision
request the page shows items in
different cues that have been allocated
for
revision assets assets are usually
shared variables or credentials that can
be used through several automation
projects they allow you to store unique
information that the robots can easily
access storage buckets RPA developers
may use storage buckets to provide a per
folder storage solution when building
automation projects the storage buckets
page shows you your current bucket
configuration and allows you to build as
many new storage buckets as you need
testing testing contains the following
tabs test sets test cases test execution
test schedules and test data cues test
set a test set is a collection of any
number of individual test cases each
intended to serve a specific function
the test sets page list of you currently
available test sets and allows you to
build new test updating existing ones
and run them test cases the test cases
page shows all of your test cases from
all of your projects and app versions in
one place these are the test cases that
are used in and to make up your test
sets test executions your previously
executed test sets and their information
are shown on the test execution tab
since test sets are often subject to
change test executions act as an
immutable record of Any Given test set's
execution at a given point in time test
shedules allow you to run test at
predetermined intervals and in a
scheduled manner test data cues using
test data cues you can store and manage
your test data the test data queue
serves as a container for queue items
that are ready to be consumed via
various activities the test data que
items are uploaded
or deleted based on the first in first
out
concept action
cataloges TK cataloges are task
containers that allow you to categorize
your task using a variety of criteria
the catalog where a task is stored is
defined when the task is created using
Studios built type task
operation in orchestrator the catalog
must be specified first if you mention a
catalog that has not been generated in
an orchestrator the task is created in
orchestrator without a
catalog settings setting contains two
tpes permissions and machine permission
a user is an individual with access
dependent
capabilities whose View and control of
the orchestrator are determined by the
roles assigned to them users may be
installed locally in the orchestrator or
an external
director
machines you can use the machine page to
provision and manage system entities
which you can then use to bind uipath
robots to the orchestrator it list all
of the machines that are currently in
use as well as the types machines are
Global tools which means they can be
access from any folder let's look at the
demo in this demo we will see how to
connect uip paath robot with the
orchestrator how to run workflow using
the
orchestrator let's go to the browser
in the browser enter
platform. part.com
this will take you to the uip part.com
website you have already an account sign
in enter the
password click on
sign meanwhile open the uip paath
assistant so this is the uip paath
assistant so uipath robot is a kind of
Representative which runs the workflow
so we create a workflow in the uip
studio then we upload it on the cloud
orchestrator then we configure different
robots to run this workflow now that we
have logged in to the
orchestrator go to the
admin so you need to click here to add
tenant for the uipath community free
edition you can add only one tenant so I
have already created an tenant so this
option is disabled for
so when you click on the add tenant for
the first time the tenant window will be
displayed then fill the tenant name
password and confirm the password and it
will ask you for name surname and email
address which is optional so after
filling the details click on provision
the tenant and the Tenant admin are
created and displayed in the tenants
page so as you can see the tenant is
created there is an option here users
and groups you can go to the users and
you can see the different users so so
this is my user this is me you can go to
the groups and see the different groups
allocated and their
licenses so now that we have created a
tenant I have named the tenant as admin
let's open
it meanwhile you can open uip paath
Assistant open uipath Assistant this is
the uip path robot there are two
different ways to connect a robot to the
orchestrator when is signing in the uip
paath assistant it will get the token
from the uip paath orchestrator by user
authentication and it will directly
connect machine and the robot and the
other way is to manually connect so
we'll sign
in enter the password
now you can see here robot is connected
to the
orchestrator so when you sign in the
robot will get connected to the
orchestrator you can go here the
preferences go to the orchestrator
settings and you can see here connected
and
license so let's go to the
orchestrator in the orchestrator go to
the tenant
context and here you can see the robot
is connected it's
enabled if you go to the machines you
can see the machine is also
connected so you can see
here there is an unattended robot here
so to get this unattended robot what you
have to do is go to the
users select the user which are using
this is my
username go to
edit and here you should enable this
unattended robot enable this option and
enter the username to get the username
you can open the command prompt and
enter who am I so you'll get the
username copy paste the username enter
the password and click on update and the
unattended robot will get
created so that is how you create the
unattended
robot now that we have connected robot
to the orchestrator let's open the uip
studio we'll create a workflow and then
we'll run it using the
robot so now we have opened the UI part
Studio let's open a blank
process after opening the uip PO Studio
click on open main work
flow first we'll drag and drop a
sequence then we need a input dialog box
we drag and drop input dialog
box enter a title let's say We'll enter
it as uip path
orchestrator enter the input
label we will enter it as enter your
name
let the input type be as text box let's
create a
variable say We'll name it as
name and let the variable type be string
and the scope is in the C
scope we have created the variable so
the value entered should be the variable
name now we'll drag and drop uh message
box theage should be displayed
so enter a caption for the message say
bit
welcome and enter the
text let's say
hi and we need to concatenate it with
the variable
name we say thanks for
watching this
video so here we go we have created a
workflow now we need to publish this in
the orchestrator so you can see an
option here called publish click on the
publish button so you can see the
package name the version the new version
and all the other things click on the
publish
button so the workflow is successfully
published
so the name is blank process 3 and
version is
1.0.6 so let's go to the
orchestrator in
orchestrator go to the my
workflow folder context in this go to my
packages if you go here you can see
refresh
here so here you can see blank process
three the process what we did now it was
published 3 minutes ago
let's go to the process and the version
what we published was
1.0.16 so the name was blank process 3
let's start the
job you can change the job priority
we'll keep it as normal the other things
is default the process name and the job
type let's let execute this process one
time click on
start as you can see command send for
blank processor three so here you can
see it is getting
run here you can see it is asking for
uip PA orchestrator what we entered the
title and enter your name let's enter
some name say
sam we'll click okay so Hi Sam thanks
for watching this video there you go the
message is been displayed like normally
in UI P Studio we click on the Run
button and run the workflow but here we
have published it in the orchestrator
and through the orchestrator through the
robot we are running it and the message
is display what is framework and its
purpose the framework is intended to
serve as a blueprint for users to create
process that provide at a bare minimum a
way to store interpret and easily change
project configuration data as well as
robot exception handling scheme and
event logging for all exceptions and
related transaction
information the system logs messages at
each relevant stage in the process of
resolving a business transaction and
sends those logs to the orchestrator
server this in turn can be linked to the
elk stack which is elastic search log
stack and kibana platform which allows
for data storage and a variety of
different ways to represent the
data the purpose of our framework is to
resolve a set of business
transaction a transaction is a small
amount of data and the steps needed to
process it to complete a segment of
business process a process that reads a
single email from a mailbox and extracts
data from it is a good
example what is a business
process the sum of actions by which the
data required for a series of
transactions is collected processed and
input into or out of an it resource is
referred to as a business process we can
classify business process into three
groups based on the steps involved and
how they are repeated linear the steps
of linear process are only done once and
if different data needs to be processed
the automation must be run again
iterative the steps of iterative process
are repeated several times but different
data items are used every time
transactional transactional systems like
iterative process have steps that
replicate several times over various
data
objects what is re
framework the robotic Enterprise
framework is a state machine based
project template the template includes
several ready to use State containers
for launching applications retrieving
data processing it and closing the
transaction these states are linked
together by a series of transactions
that cover all almost every requirement
in a typical automation scenario several
workflows have been triggered Each of
which deals with a different aspect of
project it's designed to incorporate all
of the industry's best practices for
logging exception management application
initialization and other areas show
showing it to handle even the most
complex business
situations let's look at the features of
re framework the three features are
setting logging and business application
exception
settings during the initialization phase
of several process some configuration
settings and configuration values are
frequently read like URLs to the web
application orchestrator q names and
default logging messages the framework
maintains the track of this information
by reading it from a configuration file
and storing it in a different dictionary
object shared by all states in instead
of updating workflows directly this
provides a simple way to manage projects
by adjusting values in the configuration
file
logging the built-in logging mechanism
is another helpful feature of re
framework the majority of system workf
flows use log message activities to
Output information about what is
happening at each stage of
execution this can be used to not only
identify problems and Aid in the
debugging process but also to to
generate visualization and reports about
the process execution like how many
invoices are handled every day how many
failures occur and what are the critical
causes of this failure business and
application
execution there may be conditions that
occur during the execution of most
process that are not part of the usual
execution flow and must be resolved to
achieve more efficient
automation if the issue can be resolved
by restarting application the framework
will do so automatically and attempt to
process the transaction again such
exceptions are known as application
exception if the issue is with the data
or an underlying business requirement
the system skips the transaction and
moves to the next such exception are
known as business
exception let's look at the AR framework
architecture the r framework is
implemented as a state machine which is
a form of workflow which two
advantageous characteristics States and
transitions actions to be taken in
response to the stated input are
described by States transitions that
switch the execution from one state to
another based on the results of the
state there are four key States in re
framework that is initial State get
transaction data process transaction and
end
process initial State initialization
this is the point at which the procedure
begins
it's an event where the process
initializes the settings and runs
application test to ensure that all of
the prerequisites for the process start
or met so initialization transitions so
there are two transition system
exception and successful when system
exception when a system error is not
nothing it gets transitioned to the end
process if we have an application
exception during the initialization
phase we don't have enough details to
start the process as a result we we are
going to the end process state to wrap
it up successful when a system error is
nothing it gets transition to get
transaction data if during the
initialization we have no error then we
go to the get transaction
data the next state is the get
transaction State this state retrieves
the next transaction object this can be
a q item or a collection item
transaction items are Q items by default
but this can be modified to meet your
needs this is also the state where the
developer can set the condition to exit
the state when there are no items to
process get transaction data transitions
there are two transitions no data and
new
transaction no data if the transaction
item is nothing then we are at the end
of our data collection so we go to the
end process new transaction data if the
transaction item contains data then we
process it next state is the process
transaction State the process
transaction said for the transaction
item obtained in the previous step it
performs actions and applies logic in
various application if a transaction
item has been processed the process
moves on to the next transaction item
that is
available so there are three process
transaction transitions success business
exception and system exception in
success if the condition is business
rule exception is nothing and System
error is nothing then the transition to
get transaction data if there is is a
business role exception it is logged and
we move on to the next
transition business exception if the
business role exception is not nothing
then it gets transitioned to get
transaction data if you have a business
rule exception we log it and move to the
next transaction by going to the get
transaction data State system exception
if you have an application exception we
close all programs kill them if they
fail to complete take a screenshot at
the moment the exception happen and go
to in it where we reinitialize our
working environment and begin a new form
of transaction that has failed and
finally we have the end process State
the procedure is completed and the
application open during the automation
are closed in the end process State
since this is the last state the final
State there are no transition available
in the end process
State we'll explore each one of the
states in detail in the demo let's see
the demo
now in this demo we will see how to
dispatch data from the Excel file then
we will create Q items and process these
items and then we will understand the
working of each state in the robotic
Enterprise framework in
detail so let's get started first we'll
go to the orchestrator and create a
queue ENT Cloud
platform.
UI sign up
then go to the
orchestrator the ten end which you have
created select the folder context go go
to the folder context and you can see
cues here go to the cues and you can see
a option to add here click on ADD and
enter a q
[Music]
name I enter it as RF enter any
description if you want give unique
reference yes and
add and you can see a queue is been
added so you can add an asset as well to
add an asset you can go to add click
here add and enter the asset
[Music]
name and select the
type whatever is required say
Boolean by default be it as false we
create so this is how you create an
asset so let's go to the UI part studio
so what we are basically doing is we are
building two process one to feed a queue
in the orchestrator that is a dispatcher
process and one to process transaction
from the que that is using the robotic
Enterprise framework so in dispatcher
process what we do is we get entries
from an Excel file and add them as a
queue items in the orchestrator we have
already created a queue we started
project as a sequence and added a TR
catch we started with the sequence added
a tri catch activity in the tri
block we used a read range activity to
read first 10 lines from A1 to C11 from
an Excel file and store them in a newly
created data table
variable we used for each row to Loop
through the rows of the data table
variable and add each of them in a queue
using the add Q item activity then we
use the log
message we use log message activity to
log the fact that the dispatching
process was
successful that is how we created the
dispatcher
process now we'll create a perform
using robotic Enterprise framework what
it does is it get items from the queue
and
processes
[Music]
so in the dispatcher process let's go to
the initialization State
first so we'll understand initialization
state in detail so the entire init block
is kept inside the TR catch if you go to
the documents
here and if you go to the data folder
you can see a config file
here so config file this is the file we
use in the init state it has three
sheets settings constants and
assets you can give any value whatever
you want for maximum retry number the
value should be zero when you're working
with your orchestrator cues the value
should be zero so this config file is
stored in the data
folder and it has three sheets settings
constants and
assets this is the Q name process ABC Q
so let's get back to
the teamwork
so we are initializing system error if
the error is nothing it will go to the
next state if first run read local
configuration file you can see by
default there are many variables
created you should know them and utilize
them whenever required the config
variable the value type is dictionary
type config is nothing if you go here
you can see here config is nothing
initially there is no value so initially
config is nothing then it will invoke in
it all settings
workflow let's open this first
run so it will invoke in it all settings
workflow to see this workflow click on
open workflow it has three
arguments has three arguments in config
file in config sheets and out config
this is of type string type string and
out config is of type
dis and direction this is both are input
and this is
output let's open the workflow and
understand so basically what this
workflow does is this workflow outputs
setting dictionary with the key value
pairs to be used in the project settings
are referred from the local cont config
file and then first from the
orchestrator assets assets will override
the config file
settings in all settings workflow invoke
to initialize all settings and data for
application and process used in this
part the setting consent and Assets in
the config file from the data folder are
read in the initialize all settings so
let's go back the orchestrator Q name
from the from the configuration file in
the argument case case is specified then
it provides a backward
compatibility next we have invo kill
process if we go to the arguments
here we can see the orchestrator Q name
you can assign a q name here if you have
created a
que so Ino kill
process next we have invoke kill process
it is a logging activity called killing
process depending on the project you can
add activity it is a logging activity
called killing process depending on the
project you can add
activities add add log fields in add log
Fields if you want to add any details in
the log file then you can do do it using
all log Fields any tall
applications workflow in this workflow
invoke to open apps and check their
status credentials and so
on and that there are two transitions in
this when it is successful it gets
transition to get trans section data
when there is a system exception it goes
to the end
process so so in short what
initialization state does is at the end
of this workflow that is the
initialization state it reads the config
file and stores the key and value inside
the dictionary that is the out config
out config dictionary variable has all
config Excel file
data let's see the get transaction
data when you are in the orchestrator
and you want to immediately stop a job
from for some reason when a job is
stopped this activity gets activated
there is a variable created should
stop if it's a Boolean variable by
default it's false when it gets
activated the value becomes yes then it
will go to the lock stop message as uh
stop process
requested and it will end the process
when the transaction item is nothing
else it will go to the try get
transaction
data here there it has seven
arguments and let's see the workflow
invoke get transaction data workflow
click on open
workflow it gets the data from the
spreadsheets databases email web API or
uipath server cues if no new data items
then set out the transaction item to
nothing if a new transaction item is
retrieved then it gets the additional
information about it it gives the
condition where out transaction item is
not nothing then it will add the
transaction information to the log
Fields it is about the get transaction
data workflow in process transaction
State the process is a sequence with a
try catch Activity Set to catch both
system exceptions and business
exceptions inside the tri block the
process transaction workflow invoke that
has simple process like to attach the UI
demo application and three type in
activities to fill in and click accept
button and if you see look at the
transitions it has three transition
system exception whose destination is
the initialization State business
exception goes back to the get
transaction data and success it goes to
the get transaction data finally the end
process state where the applications is
closed what is web
automation the concept of allowing
software robots to do predefined actions
activities and procedures on a web
browser or an online application is
known as web automation web automation
can help with the operations like form
filling screen scraping data extraction
and transfer across apps websites and
testing and periodic report prepar
a features of web Automation in
uipath uipath is compatible with all
webs it is compatible with HTML Ajax
Java silver light and
PDF automated data entry data entry from
an Excel spreadsheet to website can be
automated in uip
path it provides simple web testing
without any programming knowledge uip
paath helps in designing a valid
test no coding is required we can create
automation with a simple to use
graphical workflow
designer playback Precision uipath
provides 100% playback Precision web
automation can be done regardless of the
browser version screen position or
size how does web automation work in uip
paath a built-in recorder in uip paath
web automation can read an Implement web
based activities it uses attributes to
identify web items and manipulates them
accurately while keeping up with PID
changes it can be used with any website
no matter how sophisticated and can be
installed remotely through the network
the graphical workflow editor is simple
to use and does not require any coding
knowledge it's something that any user
with no programming experience can do
you save time and money by autom ating
web based workflows with UI
path let's look at the demo so in this
demo we will scrape data from the simply
learns website we'll go to Simply learns
website so consider a scenario where a
customer wants to know details about a
particular
course suppose if I want to know all the
UI path related resources that are
present on the website so I'll search as
uip path
and I'll select all free resources that
are available on the website so here you
can see there are 27 results 27 free
resources available on the simply Lun
website so I'll scrape all of this data
so using data scraping option in uipath
I'll scrape the resource name along with
the type whether it's an article or
video tutorial and along with that I'll
scrape the URL so I'll scrape all these
three things and copy it in in the Excel
sheet and the Excel sheet over and mail
I'll send it to the
customer so let's get started so let's
jump into uip part studio and get
started with the demo so let's create a
new
flowchart we'll name the flowchart as
web
automation since we are showing this
demo under web
automation so a new flowchart is created
so in this blow chart we will drag and
drop a sequence
activity right
click right click and select as set a
start
node so open the
sequence and drag and drop an open
browser
activity in the open brows browser
activity select the browser
type select the whichever browser you
want I'll select
Chrome and uh one more thing you need to
do is go to home go to tools and install
the uip path extensions click on Chrome
and if you want to continue installing
uipath extension for Chrome please close
all your Chrome process then click on
okay so then click on okay and your uip
path extension for Chrome will get
installed
so since I have already installed I'll
click on
cancel when after installing when you
open Chrome so your screen will look
like this so where you have to enable
the extension click on enable extension
and the Chrome extension will be
installed in your
device okay so let's come back to U part
studio so select the open browser select
the browser where you want to get it
installed so let's create a variable
here let's create a variable as website
URL let's go to variable and enter the
URL so let's go to
the simply larns
website and copy the
URL once the URL is copied so this open
browser activity is a container that
enables you to open a browser at a
specified URL and execute multiple
activities with within it
so we have selected the open browser so
inside the open browser activity we will
drag and drop maximize window
activity maximize window it maximizes
the indicated
window so after this next we need to
drag and drop type into
activity so we'll drag and drop type
into
activity bring it
outside bring it outside the open
browser indicate on the screen the first
thing is we need to select the search
bar so we'll select the search bar and
what we are entering here is uip paths
since we are searching for uip path
course so enter uip path and after
entering uip path we need to click on
enter
so we need to enter to search the uip
path related resources so click on this
plus button and select the enter
option select
enter so separate this concatenate
it okay so this is done so once in the
browser after entering UI part
the next thing we need to do is click on
this free resources click on this all
option check this box so for that what
we have to do
is search for click option click
activity and select this click
activity indicate on
screen and select this
click so this is done next thing what we
need to do is when we click here on all
we find 27 results so when we do it
automatically when The Bard does this
when the robot does this thing it does
not go down and refresh all the results
what it does is uh when it opens this
page without loading the below results
how much of results are available some
10 results it will copy only those 10
results it will not refresh and copy the
results which are below so for that what
we have to do is we will go to uod
Studio we will select drag and drop one
more type
into
activity and we'll indicate on
screen we'll scroll down till the
bottom and we'll simply select this
blank
screen just because so that the every
time the robot comes into this page it
goes till the bottom and copies all the
results that is why we select simply a
blank screen here and it is showing an
error we have to enter something here so
we'll select uh command say since we are
scrolling it down we'll select down and
this much is
done so go back to the flow
chart which we had created Automation
and we'll drag and drop a new sequence
so till here it's done where we are
opening the simply learns website and
searching for UI path next we what we'll
do is we will scrape the data so we'll
rename it as data
scraping we'll open this sequence so
data scraping is something where we
extract structure data from a browser
application or a document to a data
table so we'll click on data
scraping so we'll open the browser so we
have opened the browser now we'll select
the data which we want to extract so
click on next scroll
up so first we'll select the resource
name so we'll select top UI path
interview questions to create a pattern
we need to indicate a similar field
preferably the last in the collection or
the second one so what we'll do is we'll
select the second
one and we can create a column and we'll
name the column as
resources if you want you can take the
URL we'll take the URL before that we'll
take the type so these are the resources
the 27 resources
if the maximum number of results it will
go to is 100 if we enter 100 here if you
want more than 100 you can remove this
100 and keep it as zero so it will
select all zero for all so after this
we'll extract correlated
data this time we will extract the type
whether it's an article or it's the
video tutorial click on
article and indicate the similar field
for the next one we'll select video
tutorial so this column we name it as
type and we will extract the URL of each
resource and we will name the column as
say link links okay
next and we are done so enter on
finish is data spanning multiple pages
in our case there is is no multiple
Pages there is only one page in case if
there are multiple Pages you can click
on yes here press s to indicate it
scroll down and select the next
pages but since in this page there is
only one page so we'll click on
no okay this much is done we have
scraped data so after the data scraping
is done we want to copy this scrape data
into an Excel sheet so to copy it in the
Excel sheet we need Excel application
scope so we'll search for Excel
application scope
activity so Excel application scope
activity opens an Excel workbook
providing a scope for Excel activities
when this activity ends the workbook and
Excel applications are closed if this
specified file does not exist a new
Excel file is created so for this Excel
application scope so we'll go to desktop
go to new and create a new Microsoft
Excel worksheet
we'll name it as uip
path uip part
details so we have created a
file we'll go back to the uip
studio now we'll select the file which
we had
created we'll go to desktop and select
theile uip part details and we'll click
on open next we will drag and drop right
range
activity we'll search
for right range
activity bring it inside the
do and by default it is sheet 1 and
A1 so right range activity writes the
data from a data table in a spreadsheet
starting from the cell
if the starting cell isn't specified the
writing begins at A1 cell so once that
is done now we need to enter the
variable that is extract data table
variable which we extracted here that is
this variable extract data
table we need to enter this
variable go here and search for extract
data table variable so this much is done
we have scraped data from the simply lar
website right then using the Excel
applications scope we have written the
data in the Excel sheet so let's run
till here and see whether it's scraping
the data and writing in the Excel
sheet so we'll save it and click on run
so let's see we'll close
this here you can see it's opening the
simply Lars website entering uip path
oops we have made an error okay let's go
and let's stop
here so we had made an error here the
bracket was missing it is why now we
have corrected it let's save and
run for that close
this so opening the simply lunch website
it will enter uip path select all the
free resources then it will copy this in
the Excel sheet
you can see it's
copying so let's open the Excel
worksheet which we created and let's
check if it has copied so you can see in
the Excel file which we had created the
data has been scraped and copied here
the First Column it is the course name
or the resource name which we had copied
in the second column it is the type
whether it is an article or video
tutorial and the third column it is the
URL
there are no headers here right we can
give the headers so we'll go to the uip
studio and if you click on Excel
application scope or right range here
you can see add headers so click here
and the headress will be added in the
Excel sheet so this much is done now
next step is we need to send this Excel
file over and mail so to send this Excel
file over and mail let's go to
activities let's drag and drop a new
sequence we'll use a separate sequence
to send the activities over a
mail sorry not
here use a
separate we'll connect
this we'll name this activity
as mail since we are sending it our
mail open this sequence
the first activity we need here is get
password
activity so search for get
password tag and drop it get password
activity encrypts a password by
associating it with the current user
only workflows running under the current
user context can decrypt the password so
go to the password and enter your email
ID
password and and in the result create a
new variable and store the password in a
variable so that your password is
encrypted and name the variable
as
passw short form something
password and next activity we need is
send SMTP mail message so double click
on send smtv mail
message so this activity basically sends
an email message by using the SMTP
protocol so go to the port and enter the
port which is
587 and go to the server and enter the
server
smtp.gmail.com
and enter the email ID to which you want
to send the mail
enter the password the password variable
which we had created enter that and
enter the email ID here as
well so enter the subject of the mail
what you what you want the subject to be
so I'll name it as course details
and enter the
body so I'll enter a simple
hello
hello here are the
details
okay so there is a prerequisite for this
uh you have to to receive or to send an
email you have to go to your Google
account that is the email account
security option and there you have to
turn on secured access go to the option
called secured access and turn it
on okay next we need to attach the file
the file which we want to send it over
and mail attach the file in which we had
scraped the data from the simply learns
website so let's go to web automation
the previous sequence and copy the file
path from the Excel applications scod so
we'll copy this file
path
and go back in the attach
file we will paste this
path move one double
code Okay click on
okay next we'll drag and drop a message
box just for like our reference to show
a message so that the process is
completed so we'll enter a simple
message in the message box like the
course details have been mailed
successfully so correct let me correct
this
spelling details
okay so now there are no errors so now
the project is
complete so what I have done is I have
taken a flowchart in the flowchart I
have taken a first sequence in this
sequence I'm opening the browser the
simply learns browser I'm maximizing it
then I am know type using the type into
activity I'm recording the search bar in
the search bar I'm entering the UI path
and clicking on enter so after clicking
on enter I'll select the all option
where I'll select all the
resources in the first sequence then in
the second sequence I'm scraping the
data in scraping data option I'll scrape
the data I'll scrape the course name the
type and the URL then in the Excel
application scope I'll copy all the
scrape data in an Excel file so I'll use
an Excel application scope I have
created a file so in that file I'll
write the scrape data in the second
sequence then finally in the third
sequence I am using the get password
activity and send SMTP mail message and
I'm sending it over an email I'm sending
the Excel file as an attachment with an
email to the customer this message box
simply indicates that the mail has been
successfully sent okay now let me save
and click on run so I'll close the
previous
browser let me save and click on run web
automation execution is started it is
going to the
browser went to Simply learn website
search for UI path click on all
resources and it's copying the resources
in an Excel
sheet after copying the resource in an
Excel sheet it is sending over an email
so it has sent over an email and the
message has been displayed the course
details have been successfully mailed
let me go to my email inbox and check
whether I have received
it so let me click on course detail have
been ma successful y Let me
refresh and here you can see I have
received the mail let me open this
file so here you can see I have received
the file which consist of resources the
type and the link what is Excel
automation Excel automation is a task
automation involving Excel files Studio
X enables the creation of automation
project involving various types of data
from an Excel file using various
specialized activities to create an
Excel automation we must use Excel file
resource when creating a new project
that includes Excel an Excel file must
be specified within it so that all of
the subsequent actions can access the
data contained within that
file why use an Excel
automation uip paath allows you to
automate excel in various ways such as
Excel application scope activities and
workbook activities Excel automation
simplifies your application by
performing task such as formatting cells
updating values and running macros
automatically Excel task in automated
process can also be integrated with
several other functions across the
Enterprise using an RPA solution the
benefit of excel Automation in general
is that it can save people many hours
spent manually comp completing task
advantages of excel
automation productivity Excel automation
provides higher production rates and
increase productivity efficiency some of
the functions of excel can easily create
automated task and custom logic with
functions like macros macros are an
excellent way to save time on
predictable repetitive task hence Exel
automation is efficient better product
quality quality Exel automation improves
quality in several ways including
eliminating human error increasing
consistency and accuracy the ability to
create more complex projects and the
detection of mistakes along the way
improved safety Excel allows you to
protect your work whether it's to
prevent someone from opening a workbook
without a password to Grant readon
access to a workbook or to Simply
preserve a worksheet so you don't delete
any
data reduced labor Excel automation will
perform all the repetitive task more
accurately and productively than humans
thus reduces labor reduce lead time a
lead time is the amount of time that
elapses between the start and finish of
a process Excel automation reduces the
lead time let's look how to install an
Excel package let's jump into the UI
part Studio to install an Excel package
go to the manage
packages you can see the packages that
are installed go to all packages and
search for uipath Excel
activities by default an updated version
will be installed if the Excel package
is not installed you can install it from
here so in my device this activity is
already
installed this is the place from where
you can install any activities or any
packages let's see some of the commonly
used Excel
activities these are some of the
commonly used Excel activities redrain
select range save workbook autofield
range copy paste range insert and delete
columns so insert inserting a column at
the specified location in a sheet or a
table or a range and to delete a column
you can delete it from a specified range
or the
table there are filters filter table so
what filters does is you can use the
filter action to create a filter in a
Range table or a sheet based on the
values in a single column we also have V
lookup V lookup which stands for
vertical lookup is an Excel feature that
enabled searches and retrieves data from
a specified column we will explore all
of these activities in the demo section
in detail let's look at the demo in this
demo we have an Excel sheet that has a
record of covid cases in five states of
India in
2021 so we will create an Excel
automation to represent the number of
cases in
charts it's easy to understand looking
at the the charts rather than looking at
the huge
numbers then we will upload the file on
the drive so let's jump into the uip
part studio and get
started this is the Excel file which I
have created it has all the number of
cases in these five states in the year
2021 the month of Jan Feb March and
April all this record I have taken it
from a website called PRS india.org
so I have two sheets sheet one and Sheet
two so let's jump into the uip
studio to start off with the demo we
need to have the three packages
installed one is the uipath Excel
activities package the other one is
uipath g. activities this activity this
package is used for drive to upload on
the drive then
the other package is balara Excel
activities this package is used for bar
graph and pie
chart so after installing this three
packages we'll get
started so let's create a new
sequence name it as
sequence 2
so first we'll drag and drop an Excel
application
scope so Excel application scope what it
does is it opens an Excel workbook and
sets the scope for Excel activities when
this activity is completed the specified
workbook and the Excel application are
closed when the workbook application
variable is specified in the output
workbook activities field the
spreadsheet is not
closed after this drag and drop uh
create table
activity so by default we have sheet one
and enter the
range so the range is in this Excel
sheet the range is from A1 to
F5 so enter the range
for this we need to enter the file path
so we'll select the
file so we have selected the file we
have entered
the enter the table name
say number of cases
[Music]
so once this much is done next we'll
drag and drop a bar
chart drop it outside the Excel
application scope and select the file
part so select the
file so select the file select this cell
range that is the same range what we had
entered
earlier A1 to
F5 so once that is done if the chart
title say
thises and you can select the chart type
bar stack 3D clustered 3D stack whatever
is required for now we'll select bar
cluster we have many other options to
explore data label
type we'll keep it
in show value so that it shows the
value and select show
value you want show percentage then
select
percentage we'll select show Legend and
size can vary the size accordingly how
much you want so I'll keep the size
as
350 to
350 you can change the
width so the bar chart is done and you
can enter the sheet which sheet are you
using so it's sheet
one now we drag and drop p
chart select the
file similarly enter the options
here enter the cell range the same
range A1 is to
F5 show percent we will show
value show
Legend select show
value and select the sheet which you
want we'll select the sheet two
so done so we have completed till here
next we need to upload this on the
Google Drive so we'll select this option
upload
file select the
file we have selected defile so select
destination
folder for that go to your Google Drive
account so we'll go
there so in my drive I have created a
folder called Excel automation so I'll
copy this
URL till here not the entire
copy
this and go to your uip studio and paste
it in the destination
folder double
quotes then create a variable
and create a variable as
F oops there is an error we have
forgotten to use a git
application this can be only used inside
a git application so drag and drop a git
application and inside git
application we'll write this so the
error is
gone so we'll run the file now
we'll save
it and
run you can see the file is
getting
run so the execution is
ended we will
navigate to the
drive so here you can see the file is
successfully uploaded we'll open the
file
it's working on the
graph here you go here you can see the
bar graph so the sheet one with the
values number of values in each state
wasse and for Sheet two we created a pie
chart so here you go here you can see
the pie chart let's begin by
understanding who is an RPA
developer now generally speaking an RPA
developer is someone who works cross
functionally with business operations
and business analysts to create and
optimized workflow processes however
this is a relatively new career path and
many organizations formal titles for RPA
developers differ now other similar
positions may include titles like
process designer or automation architect
but no matter the title the role of a
successful RPA developer involves to
design develop and implement RPA systems
in order to automate a business process
an RPA developer will be required to
create workflow diagrams and
strategically document the
implementation he's also responsible for
bug fixes so coding skills are important
now in order to be a successful RPA
developer you must have the ability to
navigate various appropriate
Technologies such as UI part or
automation
anywhere next up is RPA growth
projections now looking at the curve
both RPA software and services increased
by huge amounts between 2016 and 2020
and Beyond according to Nexon research
knowledge and work automation could have
an economic impact of about 5 to 7
trillion us do by the year 2025 it will
touch more than 230 million knowledge
workers which constitute up to 9% of the
global Workforce Now any company which
is labor intensive where people are
performing high volume High transaction
functions will boost their capabilities
and save money and time without us
now that we've established that RPA has
a steep growth curve let's look at the
RPA job roles that you should look out
for we have the RPA developer senior RPA
developer RPA process architect RPA
developer senior consultant project
manager thead developer business analyst
and RPA data
analyst now these job roles come with
specific responsibilities depending on
the
designation however there are a few
common responsibilities of an RPA
developer let's go ahead and check them
out now the first one is strategic
planning skills now planning is a
crucial phase in any development life
cycle the RPA developer regardless of
the designation should possess the
aptitude to ensure strategic planning
planning includes the design development
and implementation of RPA systems this
also helps streamline the
business next up is strong analytical
skills now to understand the client's
requirements and cater to the needs
accordingly is crucial analytical skills
are also important to predict or
identify potential bugs and errors and
rectify them now this skill is
especially required if you're involved
in the overall
development next we have problem solving
skills now this again is extremely
crucial to predict any outages and equip
the entire unit to overcome any unforced
interruptions from the business
perspective as well problem solving
skills clear a significant role in
ensuring smooth conduction of
tasks experience in any programming
language such as C C++ python Ruby Java
or net is also
important handson experience on RPA
tools and cognitive platforms such as
blue prism automation anywhere UI PA
open span Etc is necessary communication
skills are pivital for any organization
the developer should be outspoken and
articulate any new ideas you should also
be confident to raise concerns and be as
transparent as possible in the long run
this only proves to be helpful to the
organization lastly we have exposure to
SQL now experience with database be it
SQL or no SQL is highly preferred it's
always an added Advantage if you have
the knowledge about accessing and
managing
databases next up we have RPA developer
salaries now the salaries will differ
depending on your location your
experience and also the
designation now in the US here are the
job salties and the roles according to
glass door an RPA developer in the US
earns around $76,000 us per year an RPA
developer senior consultant earns around
$99,000 per year nrpa process architect
earns an average salary of
$95,000 and a senior RPA developer earns
an average salary of $92,000
an RPA project manager earns around
$73,000 per anom an RPA lead developer
earns an average salary of
$99,000 perom nrpa business analyst
earns around
$68,000 perom and the data analyst earns
around $62,000 us per anom moving on to
India the average salary of an RPA
developer is around 5 lak 98,000 rupees
that of a senior consultant a senior RPA
developer and an RPA lead developer is
around 14 lakhs per anom and the average
salary of an RPA business analyst is
around 540,000
rupees now let me quickly run you
through a sample resume of an RPA
developer now this is just a template
and you can alter it according to your
needs first up is your general
information like name phone number and
your email ID then you can give a quick
description about yourself and your
strengths you can also mention the
objective as to why you're applying and
what you're looking for in the
organization you can include your
LinkedIn profile link and your GitHub
link one look at your LinkedIn profile
is enough for anybody to gather all the
information necessary so make sure that
it's updated moving on you could mention
your experience now here you would have
to mention the names of your previous
organizations along with your
designation and the tenure you can also
include your key responsibilities in
these
organizations along with the
responsibility you could also mention
the awards that you've received in your
organizations next up is your
educational background you can mention
the university that you graduated from
and is required that you have a degree
in computer science you can also go
ahead and mention your GPA the next
section is skills now this is pretty
crucial in the technical skills section
you could mention about different RPA
tools that you've worked on if you're
good at a particular programming
language go ahead and mention that as
well as mentioned earlier any any
experience in database management is an
added Advantage if you have any
experience go ahead and mention that
moving on to non-technical skills you
could mention any extracurricular
activities that you're proud of some
soft skills that you feel worth
mentioning can be added in this section
mentioning the languages that you know
can also boost your resume now given all
this it's fundamental that you do not
lie on your
resume all right then with that we
conclude this session I hope it gave you
a clear understanding of the subject you
are path assist business in successfully
automating their business process if
you're planning to attend an interview
for an RPA or UI part developer role
here is a comprehensive list of most
frequently Asked uipath interview
questions with
answers what is
uipath this question looks simple but
people most of the time end up giving
wrong definition uip path is a robotic
process automation tool for large scale
end to-end automation for an accelerated
business change it provides solution for
business to automate routine office
activities it uses a variety of methods
to transform TDS task into automated
process what are the different
components in uipath uip paath consists
of three components mainly uipath studio
uipath studio is a userfriendly
interface that allows users to visually
plan and design various automation
process through diagrams using the drag
and draw
functionality these diagrams are merily
a structure Cal reflection of specific
task that must be
completed UI path robot after you have
built your process the next move is to
put into action in the uipath studio
uipath robots are used to translate the
strategies into task which are then
executed these robots are used to assign
various task and carry them out in the
same manner as humans but without human
interference when given operation occurs
on the computer they program uip paath
robots to begin EX excuting task
automatically uip paath orchestrator the
orchestrator is a web- based application
in uip path it has features for
deploying monitoring scheduling and
controlling automated Bots and process
it's a centralized forum for managing
and maintaining all software
Bots what are the different workflows in
uip sequences a sequence is a small type
of project that is best suited for
linear process it enables developers to
transition from one activity to another
easily they can be reused numerous
times flowchart it can be used for large
or small projects that help in
development of complex business and
connecting activities in a variety of
ways flowcharts assist in the
presentation of multiple branches of
logical
operators State machine a state machine
is a machine that uses a certain number
of states for automation during
execution it will only change States if
an action is performed on it let's look
at the next question what is a uipath
robot the robot is a uipath's execution
agent allowing you to run process
created in the studio in order to
execute process robots must be connected
to the orchestrator or license
locally what are the different
components of uip paath robot sir
service the robot service is the primary
controller for all operations it
communicates with Studio the robot agent
and the robot command line interface by
an interprocess Communication channel to
receive and process
information executor the robot executor
is the component that is directly
responsible for process execution the
robot service creates a robot executor
instance every time a job is
started command line interface
the robot command line interface is a
console application that starts jobs and
waits for their
results uipath assistant is a tool
designed specifically to improve the
users interaction with our robots from
the comfort of the desktop it is where
users can easily access manage and run
automation with a few
clicks what is the difference between
attended and unattended robot
attended robots are supervised robots
that humans operate they work on the
same workstation as a human user and is
triggered by user
events unattended robots unattended
robots are those that do not require
human supervision to perform task they
run in Virtual environments without
human control and can automate any
number of
process what are the features of uipath
drag and drop workflow the uip path user
will develop visual process steps by
dragging and dropping related task onto
the graphical workspace then with the
user interface properties they can
transform these process steps into a
visual workflow users may also use the
recorder wizard in the UI part tool to
build web based or application
workflow record and Playback the user
can use this function to record actions
and transform them into an automated
process
Series in build AC activities in uip
paath uip paath comes with over 300
built-in activities covering a wide
range of process Automation and
application integrated design task you
can find these activities in activity
Spain which covers most design tasks
such as data extraction data entry and
automation Advanced scraping options
scraping data from web pages and
applications is more accessible with uip
path screen scraping furthermore the
data scraping wizard helps in the
scraping of data with a repeative
structure scraping solution Works
flawlessly with any program including
net Java flash PDF Legacy and sap high
security and robustness you can create
super smart durable robots with uipath
visual canvas everyone in the company
can use these bards uipath offers high
security Auto login functionality to run
the Bots and operates with a loged
screen allowing automated process to run
in complete
privacy what are the different recording
options in uip
path basic recording it focuses on
automating single task and is commonly
used to develop each activity's complete
selector desktop recording it can be
used for a variety of actions as well as
application
development web recording web recording
is a standard tool for viewing and
recording web activities Citrix
recording it is very widely used for
recording stuff like pictures and
virtualized environment
automation what is a manage package in
uipath the package manager functionality
allows to download activities packages
libraries Frameworks wrappers and others
and View and update the ones already
installed for the project and add and
remove
it it displays the list of available
packages per feed and a list of
dependencies for the current
project the manage package Windows
always opens with the project
dependencies
list how to publish a project in
uipath to publish a project in U iPod
first create a new
project then in the design ribbon tab
click publish the publish window will
open in the package properties tab enter
the name for package then click next in
the publish options tab select the
location where you want to publish your
project and finally the information
dialog box displays so let's see a demo
how is it done so let's jump in the uip
studio so here we are in uod
studio let's open our
workflow I'll drag and drop a simple
message box just to
show enter a message
say
hey so I have created a simple workflow
just to show you how to publish project
in uip
part so here you can see the publish
option once you have created the project
go to the ribbon Tab and click on the
publish when you click the publish
window opens
here you can change the package name if
you want you can see the version new
version package icon and release notes
so let's click on
next here you will get the custom URL
where you want to publish
to then click on
publish here you go you can see
publishing
package so a info dialog box appears
project publish
sucessfully if you want you can copy to
the
clipboard so this is how the project is
published in the UI
path what is data scraping and Screen
scraping data scraping is the process of
extracting structured data from a
browser application or document and
saving it to a database or a CSV file or
even an Excel
spreadsheet screen scraping methods are
activities that allow data to be
extracted from a specific UI element or
document such as a PDF
file explain the different types of
Automation in
uipath Excel automation Excel automation
is a useful tool for sorting deleting
retrieving and analyzing data it is
simple to migrate and integrate data
into
platforms Studio X has a strong
integration with Microsoft Excel and
ships with several activities that
automate Excel
task mail automation enables task
automation with emails from the Outlook
desktop application Gmail and Outlook
365 add the activities that use data
from the account inside the resource
activity after adding the account to the
automation as a resource using a used
Outlook 365 use Gmail
or use desktop Outlook app
activity word Automation in the word
automation add the word document to be
worked on by using a word file activity
and then add the word activities to
automate within the use Word file
PowerPoint
automation PowerPoint automation allows
the user to automate the most common
task in PowerPoint presentation add the
presentation to work with the used
PowerPoint presentation activity and
then inside the use PowerPoint
presentation add the presentation
activities to
automate file automation it refers to
the automation of task performed on your
computer with files and folders such as
creating copying or renaming files and
folders Studio X includes several
activities that automate task that you
perform with files and
folders CSV
Automation in CSV automation add the CSV
activities inside the use Excel file
activity where the Excel file is defined
to move data between CSV and
Excel explain a few read and write
activities read range read range reads
the values of an Excel range and stores
in a data table variable read cell reads
the values of an Excel cell and stores
in a variable read CSV reads all entries
from a specific F CSV file right range
writes data from a data table variable
to a
spreadsheet right cell writes a value or
formula into a specified spreadsheet
cell right CSV overwrites a specify data
table to a CSV
file what is an Excel application
scope Excel application scope opens an
Excel workbook and sets the scope for
Excel activities when this activity is
completed the specified workbook and
Excel application are
closed what is an
orchestrator uipath orchestrator is a
web application that orchestrates the
execution of repeative
process it manages the creation
monitoring scheduling and controlling of
bots and process
it can manage the entire robot
Fleet name some orchestrator
capabilities provisioning provisioning
establishes and maintains the connection
between the robots and the web
application deployment ensures that it
delivers the correct package versions to
the assigned robots for
execution configuration looks after the
maintenance and delivery of robot
environments and process
configuration qes Q's ensures that it
automatically distributes the workload
across robots monitoring manages user
permissions and keeps track of robot
recognition details logging locks are
stored and indexed in an SQL
database explain process job asset and
Q the process page allows you you to
build new process from uploaded packages
managing existing process and keep all
of your process up to date with the
latest package
version jobs on an uip paath Robo a job
represents the execution of procedure it
can start the execution of job in either
attended or unattended mode Q's a q is a
storage container that can accommodate
an infinite number of objects multiple
types of data such as invoice
information or customer data are stored
in Q objects other systems such as sap
or Salesforce are used to process this
data assets assets are usually shared
variables or credentials that can be
used through several automation projects
they allow you to store unique
information that the robots can easily
access how to connect a robot to the
orchestrator
Step One open uipath Assistant step two
sign in the uipath
orchestrator step three create a
tenant step four connect the robot to
the
orchestrator and step five check the
status it shows connected and licensed
so let's see a demo of how to do this so
let's jump into the uip part
Studio open you step one open uipath
assistant so we'll open uipath
Assistant after opening uipath assistant
log the uipath orchestrator so go to the
browser go to the browser and type
platform. part.com
this will take to the uipath
website so sign in if you're new to this
if you don't have the account then you
can enter all the details and login
since I have already created an account
I'll sign
in after logging in the uip paath
orchestrator go to the
admin here you can create a new tenant
you can add a tenant here and create a
new tenant since I have already created
a tenant named
admin so after creating a tenant connect
the robot to the
orchestrator go to the uip path
assistant go to
preferences go to
preferences go to orchestrator
settings here you can see the status it
is offline click on the signin button
once you click on the sign in
button allow this open
uipath here you can see it is
connecting and you can see it is
connected and license so the UI path
Robo is now connected with the
orchestrate
what is a tenant context and folder
context in tenant context to view and
control tenant level entities in the
orchestrator pick tenant from the
sidebar menu with only one instance of
the orchestrator multi tency allows
isolating
data for the folder context from the
sidebar menu pick any available folder
to view and control the entities within
the data
folder so so I'll show you let's go to
the
orchestrator so let's go to the
orchestrator here you can see this is
the tenant
context to view and control the tenant
level entities in orchestrator you can
pick the tenant from the sidebar
menu from the sidebar menu pick any
available folder folder so these are the
folders pick any available folder to
view and control the entities within
that folder so this is with respect to
the folder
context what is an re
framework the robotic Enterprise
framework is a state machine based
project
template it allows to handle even the
most complex business situations it's
designed to incorporate all of the
industry's best practice itic es for
logging exception management application
initialization and other
areas what are the features of re
framework settings during the
initialization phase of several process
some configuration settings and
configuration values are frequently read
like URLs to a web application
orchestrator q names and default logging
messages logging
the built-in logging mechanism is
another helpful feature of the framework
the majority of the systems workflows
use log message activities to Output
information about what is happening at
each execution
stage business exception if the issue is
with the data or any underlying business
requirement the system skips the
transaction and moves on to the next
such exceptions are known as business
exceptions application exception if the
issue can be resolved by restarting
applications the framework will do so
automatically and attempt to process the
transaction again search exceptions are
known as application
exceptions how to merch two Excel files
into a single Excel
file first we need to create a
sequence after creating a sequence we
need a few activities like read CSV
activity assign activity data table
activity and write CS file activity so
we'll drag and drop all these activities
and do the process then we'll run the
sequence and see the output so let's
jump into the uip part studio and start
with the
workflow so we are in the uip part
Studio I have already created a sequence
you can go to new and create a sequence
or press control n
so after starting a sequence first we'll
drag and drop re CSV
activity since we are using two Excel
files so we need to read CSV activity
we'll drag and drop another read CSV
activity so we'll select the location of
the first Excel file
select the first Excel
file I'll show you both the Excel files
which we are merging so this is the
first Excel file so it has five rows
five
names so we'll this is the first Excel
file
and this is the second Excel files this
Excel file has five different names and
the other Excel file has five different
rows so these are the two Excel files we
will merge both these Excel files into a
single new Excel
file so we'll close this Excel
files so in the first read CSV activity
we have copied the location of the first
Excel file in the output two we will
select this and create a variable right
click and create a variable and let's
say name the variable as slore
file1 we have named the
variable okay now we'll go to another
read CSV file and select the location of
the second
file so I have downloaded this sample
Excel files from the
internet just for the
demo right click and create variable
let's say name this variable as slore
File
2 so now that we have dragged and drop
to read CSV activities now next we need
assign
activity so drag and drop assign
activity so assign activity has two
parameters as you can see two and enter
a VB expression in the two parameter in
this right click and create a variable
and name the
variable let's say
merged
s now after naming the variable enter an
expression here so enter the expression
as
slore file 1 which is the variable for
file one select this and enter the
expression do clone
what this clone function does is the
Clone function creates a new data table
with the same structure but does not
copy the data so we are creating a new
Excel file that is the third file in
which we are merging the data tables of
both the Excel file so the third Excel
file which we are creating will have the
same structure as the file one so this
clone function creates a third Excel
file with the same structure as the file
one
so it's showing an error so select this
assign let's go to
variables here you can see variable type
string change it to system. dat. data
table and here you go the error is
gone okay so now we have dragged and
dropped assign activity the next
activity which we need is merge data
table activity
let's search for
merge data table
Activity drag and drop merge data table
activity we need two merge data table
activity since we have two Excel
files select the first merge data table
activity go to the
destination and enter the destination
which is the variable which we created
in the assign activity the
mer so enter
this and enter the source file that is
the variable which we created in file
one that is
slore file one similarly similarly go to
merge data
table and enter the same
destination but here the source will be
the second file
okay now that we have dragged and drop
to merge data tables the next activity
we need is WR CSV
file so we'll search for right CSV
file after dragging and dropping right
CSV activity go to file
path and create a
file create a file say want we name it
as
file
three save the
file now that we have created defile
we'll write from the data table that is
we need to copy the merge data table so
we'll
enter now that we we have finished the
program the file is created let's save
and run
it process execution has started and
ended so let's go to the
file so this is the file which we
created let's open this
file and here you can
see both the Excel files have been
merged into a single Excel file
let's go to the next question how to
send a file over at
mail so first create a sequence and
create a file after you have created a
file drag and drop get password
activity then drag and drop SMTP mail
message activity so basically these two
activities are used to send a file over
mail then run the sequence so we'll jump
into the uip studio and see
so this was the previous question which
we answered how to merge to Excel files
so the same file we will send it over a
mail so we need a get password
activity so we'll drag and drop a get
password
activity so if you go to the property
section enter the password to whichever
mail you are sending this file enter the
password of that mail
[Music]
ID after entering the password in the
result go and create a
variable so that password is stored in
that variable so name the variable say
anything any random so I've named the
variable after after this you need a
SMTP mail message
activity so drag and do send SMTP mail
message in SMTP mail message under the
property Spain under the host enter the
port value or the port number which is
587 sorry
after entering the port number go to the
server and enter it as
smtp.gmail.com
okay now after entering the email
ID go to your email and enter your email
ID to which you want to send this
file don't forget to use double codes
otherwise it will show
error enter the password so we had show
the password in an variable say
SSS so we'll write
that so after that enter the email ID
here under the two option
and enter the
subject say it as demo since we are
showing a demo we'll enter the subject
as demo this is the this subject and
body is the subject and body of the
male now let's attach the file which we
have created
copy the file
location so we'll go to the
file and copy this file
location after attaching the
file let's save and
run the process has started and the
process has ended here you can see in
the
output the process has started and the
process has ended let's go over the mail
and check if we have
received here we go we have received the
file let's open the file
and here you go the same this is the
same file which had merged the data so
the file is been sent over the mail one
thing you have to keep in mind when you
use the get password activity go to your
Google account in the security
section go to L secure app access and
turn it
on you have to turn it on to receive the
file over at
mail explain the different states and
trans positions in re framework there
are four key States in re
framework the first state is initial
State this is the point at which the
procedure begins it's an event where the
process initializes the settings and
runs application test to ensure that all
of the prerequisites for the process
start are
met next we have get transaction State
this state retrieves the next
transaction object this can be a q item
or a collection item transaction items
are Q items by default but this can be
modified to meet your needs this is also
when the developer can set the condition
to exit the state when there are no
items to
process process transaction State for
the transaction item obtained in
previous step it performs actions logic
in various application if a transaction
item has been processed the process
moves on to the next transaction item
available
end process State the procedure is
completed and the applications open
during automations are closed in the end
process
State let's jump into the UI path studio
and see the different transitions in
robotic Enterprise
framework so this is the robotic
Enterprise framework this is the
initialization State the first state so
it has two transitions System error that
is system exception and successful when
it shows system exception when a system
error is not nothing it gets transition
to the end process suppose if you have
an application exception during the
initialization phase and we don't have
enough details to start a process then
as a result we are going to end process
state to wrap it
up and the successful is when a system
error is nothing it gets transition to
get transaction state if during
initialization we have no error then it
goes to the get transaction
data the get transaction data has two
transitions no data and new transaction
no data is when if the transaction item
is nothing then we are at the end of our
data collection so it goes to the end
process and in new transaction if the
transaction item contains data then it
processes
it the process transaction data has
three transitions success business
exception and system exception success
is when if the condition is business
rule exception is nothing and system
error is nothing then the transition to
get transaction data if there is a
business rule exception it is logged and
we move on to the next
transaction and Rule exception is if the
business rule exception is not nothing
then it gets transaction to the get
transaction data and the end process
does not have any transitions since the
end process is the final state so there
are no
transitions what is a git activity the
uip path git activity package helps in
the automation of Google workspace
applications such as Google Calendar
Google Drive Google Sheets Gmail Google
Docs you can create and modify Google
calendar events manage Google drive
files read and send Gmail messages and
create new Google Sheets spreadsheets
and Google Documents with the Google gut
activity
package what are selectus and wild cards
in uip
path wild cards are the symbols that
enable you to replace zero or multiple
characters in a string this can be quite
useful when dealing with dynamically
changing attributes in a
selector selectors uip Studio uses what
we call selectors this store the
attributes of graphical user interface
element and its parents in the shape of
an XML fragment the selector adds in the
automatic generation of the selection by
utilizing wild
cards what is a machine explain standard
machine and machine
template the machine page allows you to
provision and manages machines to use
them to register robots with
orchestrator it displays the types of
machine that we currently in use it
enables you to design your machine with
standard or template
standard machine it should be used when
the name of the machine on which you
want to Define robots is the same every
time you connect to it you define the
machine once and then you can connect to
as many robots as you want from the
robots page machine template it should
be used whenever the name of the machine
on which you want to Define robot
changes you represent this entity once
and then you use a unique active
directory username to connect to any
number of attended floating
robots explain delay do if and switch
activities in UI path the delay activity
allows you to pause the automation for a
specified amount of time this activity
is beneficial in projects that require
precise timing such as waiting for a
specific application to start or for
some information to be processed before
using it in the another activity
the do activity allows you to run a
specific piece of automation while a
condition is met the project exits the
loop when the specified condition is no
longer completed this activity can be
used to iterate through all the array
elements or execute a specific action
multiple
times if activity the if activity
includes a statement as well as two
conditions if the statement is true the
first condition is executed
if the statement is fall the second
condition is executed if activities can
be used to make decision based on
variable
values switch activity the switch
activity allows you to choose one of the
several options based on the value of
specified expression the switch activity
uses an integer argument by default but
you can change it in the properties
panel under the type argument list the
switch activity can be used to
categorize data based on predefined
number of
cases how to create chart in
Excel step one create a new sequence go
to the uip part studio and create a new
sequence and then drag and drop the
following activities to create a chart
we need to use Excel application scope
create table activity and bar chart and
pie chart activity depending on which
type of charts you want to create
then at last after completing then run
the
sequence we will see a demo of this in
the uip
studio how to upload a file on drive so
create a new sequence and drag and drop
a git application then inside G
application drag and drop upload file
activity fill in the details and finally
run the suite let's go and see a demo to
how to create charts in Excel file and
how to upload a file on this
drive so let's jump into the uip part
Studio this is the Excel file which I
have created it has all the number of
cases in these five states in the year
2021 the month of Jan Feb March and
April all this record I have taken it
from a website called PRS india.org
so I have two sheets sheet one and Sheet
two so let's jump into the uip part
Studio
to start off with the demo we need to
have the three packages installed one is
the uip path Excel activities package
the other one is uip su. activities this
activity this package is used for drive
to upload on the drive
then the other package is balara Excel
activities this package is used for bar
graph and pie
chart so after installing this three
packages we'll get
started so let's create a new
sequence name it as
sequence
2 so first we'll drag and drop an Excel
application
scope so Excel application scope what it
does is it opens an Excel workbook and
sets the scope for Excel activities when
this activity is completed the specified
workbook and the Excel application are
closed when the workbook application
variable is specified in the output
workbook activi is field the spreadsheet
is not
closed after this drag and drop uh
create table
activity so by default we have sheet one
and enter the range so the range is in
this Excel sheet the range is from A1 to
F5 so enter the
range for this we need to enter the file
path so we'll select the
file so we have selected the file we
have entered
the enter the table name
say number of
cases so once this much is done next
we'll drag and drop a bar
chart drop it outside the Excel
application scope and select the file
path so select
file so select the file select this cell
range that is the same range what we had
entered
earlier A1 to
F5 so once that is done give the chart
title say
thises and you can select the chart type
bar stack 3D clustered 3D stack whatever
is it required for now we'll select bar
cluster we have many other options to
explore data label
type we'll keep it
in show value so that it shows the
value and select show
value you want show percentage you can
select
percentage we'll select show Legend and
size you can vary the size accordingly
how much you want so I'll keep the size
as
350 to
350 you can change the
width so the bar chart is done and you
can enter the sheet which sheet are you
using so it's sheet
one we and drop pie
chart select the
file similarly enter the options here
enter the cell range the same
range A1 is to
F5 show percent we will show value
show
Legend select show
value and select the sheet which you
want we'll select the sheet two
so done so we have completed till here
next we need to upload this on the
Google Drive so we select this option
upload
file select the
file so we have selected defile so
select the destination
folder for that go to your Google Drive
account
so we'll go
there so in my drive I have created a
folder called Excel automation so I'll
copy this
URL till here not the entire copy
this and go to your UI PCH studio and
paste it in the destination folder
double
quotes then create a variable
and create a variable as
five oops there is an
error oh we have forgotten to use a git
application this can be only used inside
a git application so drag and drop a git
application and inside G
application we'll write this so the
error is
gone so we'll run the file
now we'll save
it and
run you can see the find is getting
run so the execution is ended we will
navigate to the
drive so here you can see the file is
successfully uploaded we'll open the
file it's working on the graph
here you go here you can see the bar
graph for the sheet one with the values
number of values and each state wise and
for Sheet two we created a pie chart so
here you go here you can see the pie
chart so with that we have come to the
end of the RPA uip paath full course
tutorial if you enjoyed watching it make
sure to hit the Subscribe button and
press the Bell icon to never miss an
update thank you so much for being here
watch out for more videos from us until
then keep learning and stay tuned to
Simply learn
