[Music]
[Music]
so let's just uh dive right into it
because in some sense uh my talks
already been introduced uh previously
so you've already heard this term
ubiquitous Computing ubic comp and I I
want to just fill in some details from
what you heard earlier so uh yes this is
another picture of Mark Weiser and yes
this is the article that you've already
been told you should read um or if you
want to know about it and the thing was
is that I was part of this team and and
and and fairly involved in this project
and I I want to go into a little bit
more detail by way of background because
it's um it's not trivial uh and there's
some interesting things that happen here
so I want to try and get two key words
and Concepts out about what ous
Computing is about and it's it's about
basically how do you make things
transparent how do you make computation
or the benefits of computation which is
a much better way to say it how do you
make the benefits of
computation available everywhere where
it's
relevant while keeping it transparent to
the user and so it's sort of like this
thing where I have to cross this water
from this uh Shore to the other Shore
and how do I get there in a way that's
uh makes sense now in the old days you
just swam but there's sharks in the
water and you you you run the risk of
getting um eaten so you introduce some
technology and so the engineering
approach is you build a motorboat that
pollutes and so on so forth and it costs
a bunch of money and uh you go across
that way in some sense the purpose of
ubiquitous
computing in this metaphor would be that
you build a
bridge hence you get around from Island
to island or from Shore to Shore exactly
the same way you get around on any one
of those Shores that is you use the same
skills you've used through a lifetime of
living in the everyday world you walk
now it's not that you can't see the
bridge the bridge is there and that's
part of the Aesthetics of design as well
as the functionality of design so you
walk across the bridge so it's not that
you can't see the bridge transparency of
technology is sort of like this the
dining room table because it belongs in
the dining room is transparent to your
functioning in the household however
that very same dining room if you put it
in the toilet not in the toilet but in
the bathroom would be out of place
likewise if you put the toilet and
removed it from the bathroom and put it
into the dining room or the kitchen that
would sort of be noticed and and so it's
not about it being invisible it's just
being appropriately placed in a way that
integrates into the workspace now what
we did at Park is we started to do
exactly this was already described and
Mark's notion was that you had these
three form factors that you worked with
basically boards um uh slates which we
call pads and
tabs and we typically talked about in
your office in your space you might have
one or two boards you might have two to
five slates and you might have up to
five to multiple tens of of of tabs the
notion was that each of these form
factors were going to come cheaper and
in some sense you'd have as many tabs
around as you might have Post-it
notes I'm going to you can see actually
uh that's Mark at the one of the first
generation live boards and uh and you
can see a slate you'd think it was a
this is photograph is from about uh 1993
um you can see a a slate there
everything was networked the the the the
pads and the tabs were all um wirelessly
networked and this is a closeup that's
actually my hand from I did the
Industrial design on on on the of the
the basic specs for the uh for the tab
um and Fitz Richardson Smith the the the
detail design but the thing about it was
is that there's a couple well there's a
couple things about it that that's
interesting that relates to what I'm
about to talk
about it looks like a PDA this
photograph is some 1993 so this is 3
years before the pal
pilot it's one year before the Simon
which was the world's first
smartphone it's wireless it uses IR
which meant it knew what room it was
in
and in one sense it's a wireless PDA
that you can carry around but was
Network to everything else in in in the
building by the way they were absolutely
useless the minute you left the building
they had no light they had no internal
apps they were actually in the jargon of
the the day it ran X clients or sorry it
ran X servers because a server is a
client in today's
Parliament you could use it had a
resista film touchscreen so you could
use your finger or you could use the
stylus but what I want you to notice
about it and this is the part that I
insisted
on was notice how I'm holding it I'm
holding it to one
hand and the three buttons are Des
designed around the end of the device so
that the same hand that's holding it the
fingers wrap around and can be used to
operate any of the buttons to get stayed
my background of music is no coincidence
in terms of the what the design came up
to it was shaped and the form was
largely determined by a trumpet Valves
and likewise by being able to hold it
and operate the buttons by the same hand
that holds it just like a trumpet which
I used to play um you could actually
have seven buttons but you not only can
push any one of them you can push them
in seven combinations that you get by
trumpet the ne most important part was
you could hold it without even looking
at it and work the buttons where it was
necessary and by the way after the fact
I discovered there's a guy named
Livermore who lived in the New England
in around 1867 who made a six button
device that had exactly that form factor
which was the world's first Portable
typewriter and he kept it in his pocket
and he would sit and take notes and
describe in exactly the same way Thad
Starner and the and cyborgs did so it
was all mechanical but he was actually
taking eyesee typing which is something
none of us can do with our smartphones
even
today
um what was important about this and why
I wanted to do it that way is from the
very beginning before we built anything
was the notion was that it wasn't these
three islands a tab a slate and a on a
board they all had to work when they're
alone but they were designed and
conceived of that they joined together
in different combinations generally
based on proximity and an oper and fun
and and
intent so the my model and I had a
photograph actually of Queen Elizabeth
rather than Queen Victoria but this is
this shows it up better if you look at
the English Queen most of the formal
photographs have her doing two things in
the non-dominant hand holding this ball
with a cross on it which is called an
orb and the scepter in the other hand
this is the Regal pose and that was the
metaphor that we would talk about that
the tab when I was working on the live
board I would have the stylus as my
scepter and I would have the park tab as
my orb so that when I came up and
started writing I could check my notes
and have secondary material here that I
could as as a secondary screen for
coaching while I wrote here and this
same pen that worked on the board I
could come and actually make notes on
here as well but likewise while holding
I could do things like if I was was in a
window and and anything like that I
could scroll up or scroll down or page
up or page down by doing one or two keys
on either side so that the the buttons
when I'm working on the live board the
buttons on the park tab actually
affected the what I was doing on the
board not on the tab so that the the
park tab became a peripheral to the
board and as I walked away it seamlessly
decoupled and became an autonomous
entity whose Behavior changed as I as it
became
alone and again those R visions and
things that still haven't been realized
did we finish making all that stuff work
at Park absolutely not a lot of things
happen but the main thing was from day
one that drove the physical architecture
of the device and it's still probably
the only PDA that you can operate with
one hand the button functions the same
hand that's holding
it
now in terms of to be honest we didn't
work a lot because we were just trying
to make this stuff work but in the early
phases but we got stuff working when you
could work at the board and you'd work
at the tab when it's by
itself but unfortunately gods in the
details and the most important detail is
not that state or this state not the
state of coupled versus solo but moving
from one to the other because we live in
a dynamic world and if you've read my
book or heard me speak I tend I spent a
year or two ranting about the following
is that just as when I see storyboards
which are screen shots or screen
um um Pro sketches of screens connected
by arrows I scream really
loudly for the following reason that if
you don't have as much detail in your
early sketches in the arrows as you do
in the things that the arrows connect
you probably don't deserve a
job I'm overstating this but let's just
say you might want to rethink how you do
your
job because it's all about the
Transitions and if anybody says
something like the iPhone is successful
because of the touchcreen or the
graphics or the skin not at all the
thing that it
did is it made the transitions the flow
it's all about the flow and those of us
who think we're doing storyboards when
we put up thumbnails or screens and have
arrows have never worked in Hollywood
and have never seen a
storyboard and if you study it Rochester
for example industrial design you will
take a multi-week course and doing
nothing but drawing arrows and getting
the semantics of arrows right so you can
get the vocabulary of the motion
captured if you put a bunch of snapshots
connected by arrows to show the sequence
and an engineer sees them that's what
they will build and it'll go snap snap
snap and when you say that's not how
it's supposed to Flow It's supposed to
be tumbling supposed to do all these
wonderful transitions you say you didn't
specify it it's not in the arrows I gave
you you I gave you what you asked for
and if you didn't ask for it properly
guess whose problem that
is and they're
right so this comes right back to this
morning right when Steve was talking
about this every time there was a
transition something
broke and this is true at the micro
level when you bring things really small
and at the level where people are moving
from device to device or context to
context at every scale we need to have
these hierarchies of these State
diagrams when I'm changing State and
understand what the transitions are and
and we need to be as effective as a game
designer and or a filmmaker and how we
do those Transitions and my biggest
suggestion is we start recruiting people
from the video game industry into
dealing with that part of the creative
direction of our our
products and there's two words that have
to drive all of this type of how we do
the Transitions and how we make these
graceful changes and one with the term
is seamless the other is graceful and I
want to talk about this in a sense
because um we've all heard the world
word like if you're going to have a uh
something that's going to break down for
some other reason it should you know
have graceful degradation so let's let's
push on that because we're a little bit
familiar with that
term when we bring things together
that's an act of
aggregation we bring multiple devices
together to work in
concert and of course when I take them
apart that's
disaggregation and what happens and
should be happening there in terms of
the value proposition and whatever
currency is relevant for what we're
doing should by aggregation have
augmentation of power and actually a
diminution of complexity by the way that
I won't get to that level of detail
though but the same thing as I have
disaggregation I have degradation of
this whatever it was I was doing before
things will this just like the park tab
could be spectacularly powerful when
it's working with here but it still is
valuable here it's just when I have the
aggregation I get more and maybe
different but it's it works this way but
the key thing is those two things are
coupled and and and the up and down
arrow is where the transitions lie and
that's where the real design effort
needs to take
place so uh yeah Derek uh sort of did
this thing this morning and it showed
you know look at all the stuff how many
of you have this much stuff with you and
so let's play a really quick game um
what do you got with you Who's got
what okay I you have a laptop okay
what else come on sh it out we don't
have time
slate a
camera what else
phone it's not a phone it's a
mobile anything
else paper
pen paper I see a video
camera oh what's wrong you on your
fingers good enough
that's my invitation Steve Jobs
um that
it well I got a
watch I get a wallet IP MP3
player so I didn't say Zoom all right
now the snap shot
here might support the
notion that so what we're talking about
are these different form factors of
different screen sizes and so on so
forth and they're coming together and
all that crap is all feeding back into
almost this sort of office directed
business kind of gooey blah you
know that's apparently
wrong and what and we've got to go to
this new place where we have this other
type of aesthetic but but Jesse actually
talked about
a whole other way to think about this
this morning which I thought was pretty
good
and come
on and all I can tell you is
that this thing isn't on your list now I
actually don't have it with me right now
but that's called the wx7 and it's an
electronic saxophone I worked on it for
Yamaha back in 1982 I think is is that
true no when it came out
80 85 I think or
86 but that's doesn't look like anything
you've described in fact I don't think
anybody would call that a computer I
think it's just a musical instrument
that if you haven't practiced 10 hours a
day for many days you're going to sound
like a piece of
crap especially when you have to program
it and what I trying to say is that we
don't have to
wait to find examples
about how digital devices are
beautifully integrated into our lives
and here's the only problem nobody's
mentioned is that if you want to be a
really really successful designer in our
field then prepare to be anonymous
because the only time you should notice
great design is or design is when it's
broken it's like Plumbing if there's
crap all over the floor you notice it
but if it if there's not you
don't right it's transparent it's just
there everything's where you need it and
it might be beautiful so you might get a
bit of styling stuff that but the
primary function is it doesn't draw
undue attention to itself at a certain
point the design gets over the top and
becomes
ostentatious an ego rather than great
design I just say that there's tons of
examples of things like this that
already
exist and it's not have to move from
office or business types of things the
stuff in the office belongs in the
office there's nothing wrong with an
office office and it's not the then the
graphic user interface on Excel is
probably the most natural user interface
that you can have if you're trying to do
spreadsheets in an office on a desk
which by the way doesn't mean that that
saxophone is a bad
thing that thing is crap at doing your
incom tax which is why it's good my
Excel spreadsheet is great at doing
spreadsheets but it's crap at doing
music which is
good and it's this notion of strong
specific Tools in in the form factor the
a and then with the appropriate
interface that's appropriate for the
task that are dispersed through our
environment that let things work here
I'm going to say this really quickly
because I don't have a lot of time but
everyone in this room has probably had
this conversation I'm going to imitate
my wife right now Bill you're always on
your
computer right everybody's had that
right all right my father and mother in
my entire time growing up I never heard
my mother say my father he was also
named Bill Bill you're always on your
pencil
okay you're going to laugh out of the
other side of your face when I tell
other half of that story listen there's
nothing that I do with a computer that
my father didn't used to do with a
pencil every activity that we
do more or less right statistically
speaking everything we do with the
computer today was done with a pencil
before but but the activities were
visible because of the other devices and
other Technologies and the Loca other
locations where the activities took
place so therefore they were cues to let
you know I'm writing you a love letter
I'm writing the Great Canadian novel I'm
paying our income tax I'm actually
buying you a vacation off to you know
Tahiti or something like that I'm
writing my Paro parole board report
whatever but the point is they all had
location and they had other things
around that gave cues that you weren't a
monom manic thing and the computer
didn't dominate it disappeared the
activity became transparent or visible
and the tools became
transparent that's your bous Computing
and if you do everything through your
mobile I'm sorry it doesn't cut it to
show me an example that took three hours
to create of Windows every single
function of of word I'm not criticizing
I'm just saying think about this for a
minute because critical thinking is
really
yes we can make Windows fill up your
entire screen but at the same token I
could load every free app from the App
Store onto an iPhone and have the same
type of of of overrun ridiculous thing
what good are 5,000 apps and that's not
even that's the tip of the iceberg of
what's available on my iPhone try and
work on that
too Common Sense prevails but putting
overloading
anything pick your take your pick is
going to make a mess
and in terms of
this just to show that I used to have
hair the can sense turn y up perhaps
we've hooked it up to a sound and so
we've got a high pure sound here this
descend and richness with
X and degree controlling
volume and I can finger
paint
[Music]
okay why am i showing you that because I
want to just again push these things
about beautiful gesture and movement
predate the
Macintosh that was 1982 that's that the
original multi-touch device that was
first published in 1985 so we were doing
multi-touch the same year mark zuker
bird was born born and the same year the
Macintosh was born okay that's how long
it's been there and it was done to make
a drum a musical instrument not to do
something in the office not to do
something productive not to make money
but to do something and there's no
there's a very good reason for that no
profession has a longer history of
articulating powerful and creative ideas
through a technological intermediary
than musicians and the aesthetic we took
when we were doing this stuff in terms
of a lot of the gesture stuff the pen
stuff and the touch stuff
in the early days was to make musical
instruments that were worthy of playing
on stage as as performers that's the
aesthetic we brought and it's only
recently that that that at the mass
produced level we've been able to get
the means to deliver that in the broader
space but I have to tell you it was that
that and this work that got Alan Kay
when he visited and saw it that drag got
me to go to park the next
week now
now the as we come along through this
path we start to realize that things are
snowballing out we have all of these
devices we have social networking we
have the internet just going crazy and
more and more and more and more and more
as you so correctly said now I'm happy
to prune some of the stuff
off but there's social networks of
people and we've got the internet which
is sort of like
whatever but for me
I want to talk about the social network
of
devices not because I'm a hardware
person but because of what I already
said with that simple example of the
whiteboard in my tab when they start to
work together in concert when they when
they become a social network a nice
pairing but where they can also come off
and be individuals for a while and I
might if if you get nothing else out of
what I want to say it's this I believe
that going
forward the only way we're going to
avoid Our Lives being po populated with
a whole bunch of G garbage
gadgets just think of the remote
controls that are on your living room uh
coffee table any one of which anybody
knows how to use but together nobody in
your family knows how to turn on the TV
after you've watched a uh
DVD it's going to get way
worse and if you tell me you're going to
have a better at living room remote
control universal remote control take
that on the road when you you know just
I'll give you another example and
another then we'll have so many
universal remote controls in so many
locations the complexity just moves
there you fix it here it goes there take
take the two buttons off the mouse get a
one button Mouse you transfer the
complexity that's always been the case
again you've already heard that but the
question is by the right combinations of
simple devices where they augment each
other we reduce complexity it's one of
the few cases where we have the
opportunity if we do our job right where
more is less more of the right devices
gives us less complexity and in fact
more of the the right devices is gives
us more squared or to the nth power of
value and that's what this network
brings now we're in this sort of network
and mesh of things and there's a lot of
ways we have to think about it and it
seems to me that in this web and and so
on so forth we have to ask one
fundamental question and that question
is who's the
spider and even there this sounds like a
stupid question maybe and it's maybe
just a way CU I like getting my
photographs and my slides and then
figuring out a way I can rationalize it
but it's in this
case is the cloud The Spider and then we
all hang off the cloud and so we're the
tentacles at the very end gripping hang
out the tree for deal life so we don't
spring in the Spider-Man fashion or is
it you and me the people that are at the
center of this and I'd
argue that the way I think about these
things is that I'm the center of my own
web and my web is Interlink with your
web and so our our networks our webs can
can link and the social networking isn't
link from me to you it's my web to yours
some of which may overlap but my
immediate web is made up of the devices
that I personally own and then how they
interact with the things that might be
embedded in the environment that I'm
moving through in the public space and
to the things of people are in my close
Network how they might be able to start
have that kind of relationship
too and the key thing about this is
forget the technical part what are the
social mores of approach and departure
and connection and I going to do this
all the time but um this is you're Irish
so you can take this okay right I'm
going to give my talk just like this
right now this is kind of
strange right and he said nasty things
about Microsoft so I didn't put my
stylus in his ear now the deal is this
you're laughing because it's so it's the
only thing to do other than being a
guest because it's so
inappropriate
but watch this I'm going to do something
equally terrible i've got my cell phone
I just put it against her
laptop so
what who gives a crap who cares nobody
knows electronically in that web they
don't know each other exist if I put it
side my laptop it has no idea it exists
they're both running
Windows what's with
that proximity approach departure and by
the way as I got a certain distance away
from you when I bet if we both wrote
down we could predict exactly how far I
got away from you when you started to
feel comfortable again
right we're guys what can I
say but this is really important and I'd
argue if you want to think about when
you talk about ubiquitous computing
the reason I you know I'm not picking
anybody but when I put the saxophone up
and the drum and and this sort of stuff
as well as the computer
screens or phone screens or whatever
they
are that the way to calibrate is this
prend their browsers okay in the future
the
diversity of web browsers is going to
match the current diversity of Inc
browsers
and Inc browsers are also known as
paper and if you want to do your
ethnography study then get the people in
your team or your clients or yourselves
you can make money doing this with your
clients is that they have to do a
24-hour diary study where they take an
inventory of every encounter they have
with paper over the course of 24 hours
where they n not only notate what it was
where it is how big it was what's the
message how long should it be there what
did it cost and so on so
forth because every one of those is a
potential case where our interactive
digital things are going to have a place
going
forward from
money to newspapers to posters to
Billboards to labels I literally
yesterday I saw here in Lisbon a company
that's making things that are electronic
displays that are going to are at a
price point now where there can be
labels on products like Coca-Cola
bottles at that level of M
manufacturing so this is not
exaggerating I'm just saying this is
happening where
appropriate the technology is no longer
the inhibitor this is the most important
thing that we all should
recognize the reason things were
difficult before in the era that ended
about 5 years
ago was because the miracle was anything
we built actually
worked and that could be sold I don't
mean we Microsoft I mean we as an
industry it was a miracle that we could
actually get this stuff working
sufficiently reliable that we could get
money out of cash machines and not feel
nervous and so on so forth and send
money with PayPal and so on so
forth those days are
gone and the only question that if you
can't make it work you shouldn't be in
business now that we can make anything
work the ultimate question is what's
worth making work how should it work now
that we can do anything what should we
do
and that's what this is about and my
view is my focus these days is not about
any single device if you can't make
something as good as anything Apple
makes or anything as bit good as the
connect it shouldn't be in
business I take that for granted just
like I take for granted when I drive
over a bridge that it doesn't fall down
and it looks really
good right it's just engineering it's
design that's professional it's just
doing your job the next job is make the
stuff work
together so we I want to come back to
the paper thing though just to make my
point because I every once in a while
Point needs to be emphasized redundancy
isn't a bad thing we think about eaper
and
ebooks and e-readers but you hard to
ever think about a newsprint uh magazine
straight off the stand this is the 75th
Anniversary issue of Esquire Magazine
from October 2008 it has an e in exactly
the same technology that's in your
Kindle not only in the front cover but
on the inside cover there's an
advertisement that that is quasi
animated
with the battery and everything in the
cover for the same price as the regular
magazine sound that thing blew me away
when I saw it because I'm supposed to
know about this stuff I'm supposed to be
some kind of visionary and it caught me
completely with my pants down I had no
idea and then a year later almost
exactly came
this this is an issue that was on the
news stands in New York City and and and
in Hollywood of Entertainment Weekly and
on it there is a 2-in LCD television set
in the print edition for the same price
and it has 6 hours of Replay on the
battery and it had 40 minutes of video
inside it it had trailers for every
single show that was going to be
launched in the fall season for CBS it
was sponsored by pepsicola and and these
buttons along the side here are the
channel Changers you could just push and
select which show you wanted to look
at
and if that doesn't just give your
entire conceptual framework if you
aren't familiar with this a total
refresh and rewrite in terms of how
broad should we be thinking we talk
about e-readers and ebooks and
e-publishing I don't know what else it
takes because this floors me I chase
both those down I have working versions
of both of them because I just can't
believe it and I want to show them
people all the time whenever I
can and and that speaks to what I said
about ink
browsers if we can do that what
economically in a business what else can
we do well this is what else we can do
this is what they used to do in London
to change the the posters um I can't
remember when Sid Kai was in Vienna but
I think it was at least six years ago
but already six years ago in Vienna they
had projectors mounted above the Subways
and they replaced the paper with
projected video and by the way it was
the worst crap content I've ever seen in
my life it was like the QVC Shopping
Channel it was like these people had no
idea about media it's got a projector
it's video so it must be
Television right and they had no idea
and there's no way to interact with it
that's the other part but that's then
this is now think about it Subways are
the most perfect place to have
projection because there's no daylight
you've got a controlled lighting
environment you don't get killed or
electrocuted when you're on the tracks
with your with your ladders and that
stuff can be changed by time of day and
so on so forth and you could if if
things were done right use your Mobile
to actually take things from that but
we're going to I get ahead of myself
we'll come back to that in fact I'm
going to do it right
now every place you see one of these
posters these advertisements on a bus
shelter that are made out of film with
back lit with uh with lights that is
going to be a thin film polymer display
that's on the net whether it's wireless
or tethered who cares it's got
processing power it's on the network
it's there and it can be changed by time
of day and so on so forth and it can do
all kinds of other things but here's the
nature of the types of how our
transactions can start to change and
there's very subtle things that come out
of there so you come up with your La
your phone because I'm Stranger in Town
and I come up and I pull out my phone
and I by pointing my phone at the device
by the way all I'm asking here is that
my mobile phone be able to do my
so-called smartphone what a term um if
you call these things smart I think
think we should all stop using that term
they're smarter phones in the sense
they're smarter than the phones we had
before but if you take this as smart
then I worry about the people you hire
because you probably think they're smart
too would you hire your phone if it was
a ux designer given its level of
intelligence okay that's what I'm saying
all right now if I could do what my Palm
Pilot could do in 1996 that is without
any handshaking just point it at your
Palm Pilot push a button and pass you my
business card or an address whatever I
wanted which I cannot do Bluetooth
doesn't let you do that because what I
pointed at you it's going to the person
in the room on the other side of that
wall we can't do that yet this isn't
just about software it's the whole deal
it's the entire ecos system just like
those three buttons like a trumpet on
the PDA of the park tab but Watch What
Happens I do it Bingo up Pops a map
because that's what I asked
for why would I use the dinky screen on
my
smartphone when I've Got That honk and
big display there that Nike is willing
to loan me and now I'll just use the
touchpad here the same way I use the
touchpad on my laptop to control
whatever's up there on the big screen by
the way it doesn't have to be a map you
and I could be playing video games we're
waiting for the best or whatever
whatever is appropriate but the point is
notice two or three things this simple
coupling the aggregation of these two
things reduces complexity for people
like me that are 63 I just became a
grandfather and I can't read as well as
I used to so I appreciate the big screen
thank you very much and I want to be
able to get the information and take
advantage of it and I don't want to be
searching around for
hotspots but just a minute all of my
experience with ads online have been
banner ads and popup ads that are
absolutely pissing me
off they get in my way and despite the
fact I know intellectually that they're
paying for my free stuff I still resent
them cuz I want it free and I don't want
to be charged for it in any way at all
in inconvenience in that it's nothing's
free by the way you we'll talk about the
valuation for of Facebook and what
you're act what they're actually buying
on the boat tonight but anyhow the point
here notice what has happened and by the
way I love advertising because it it
keeps us going but here's the
point by this simple thing I just
did seemingly just coupling up two
devices heterogeneous
devices almost like the lifeboard right
the big display with the Palm a handheld
exactly the same with before but in a
different context therefore different
product I've completely reversed or
transformed the relationship between me
and the advertisement and The
Advertiser I have always had an annoying
popup ad on my
application I have a welcome popup
application on the ad
and if I know that Nike offers that to
me I'm going to search it out every
place and furthermore popup ads you get
rid of they're not persistent and
they're in your peripheral vision and we
know the F con of vision is about 14
degrees and you're up close you're not
going to see them
anyhow I've put a Nike Swoosh Watermark
right in the fulvio cone of vision in
the center of the app in know such a way
that it does not intrude with my ability
to use the map or the application but I
still got the imprint of the
brand see I'm not disrespecting the ads
I want the ads to work for everybody
including
me and it's this notion of coupling that
opens up completely different
opportunities because now is that a
phone app or is it a is it an outdoor
advertising app or is it a service Kiosk
app the answer is yes to all of the
above but the relationships among the
people in the ecosystem that play in
this have to change dramatically to make
this stuff actually work and by the way
just to give you an example that I'm not
smoking crack or anything like
that in Yahoo's already implemented um
touch screens of that size in bus
shelters in Washington DC and in the Bay
Area to do field trials so this is not
that far away Gibson was right the
future's already here it's not just not
uniformly distributed and if you read my
essays about the long nose you'll you'll
understand that these things have been
around for
decades
so some examples just as I wrap up
we have to become collectors we have to
start to actually watch around and just
like people don't notice things like a
saxophone because it's a saxophone not a
computer it's a camera not a computer a
camera is just a computer with P light
in and and pixels
out use a spring taxs your mp3 player
it's not a it's it's a computer but
nobody calls it that
way your Nintendo
DS can absolutely my kids are all
sitting around in the same room playing
like Mario Kart
party which really interesting too this
is a little bit more hetrogeneous as
opposed to homogeneous Network whereas
the electronic cart Scrabble you can
actually use that for plain Scrabble one
of the modes that comes is that you use
your your iPad sorry your iPhone or your
iPod Touch for the tiles and an iPad for
the game and you can sit and mimic the
round table social thing it's it changes
completely the social nature of playing
electronic
games um Nest learning has a thermostat
get this a normal digital thermostat
costs about $25 to $30 this thing cost
$250 and they can't make them fast
enough because you can uh use your
iPhone or whatever your mobile to to
control the heat and set the Heat and
turn it down you're driving home from
the um from a 3we vacation in the winter
you can turn the heat up so the house is
warm you don't have to do any of this
fancy programming now all of the things
things around this remember I said it's
about the transitions transitions are
the transactions are are are the key
part of the
transactions and if we step outside of
our own um small world the there's some
Theory and knowledge that we can apply
really to how we think about these
things how we evaluate because the term
keeps coming up and I think
appropriately so how do you measure how
do you determine for yourself much less
your clients or your boss or anyone else
um or even sell it to your customers
what why this is better and why you
would do this instead of that and the
answer is taken from this guy Edmund Co
sorry Ronald Coast 1991 he won the Nobel
Prize he won the Nobel Prize for this
theory of TR of how firms interplayed uh
amongst themselves according to the cost
of doing business
transactions and this notion of
transaction cost should be in every
single one of our vocabulary it should
dominate all of our conversations if we
care about Transitions and transactions
and say what is the cost
but that's not a good enough question
you have to say what are the currencies
that are relevant in this
context According to which we determine
much less measure the cost what should
it cost and what's determined and what's
the exchange rate amongst these other
currencies otherwise we cannot do an
appropriate cost benefit
analysis that notion of different
currencies exchange rates among them and
then cost benefit analysis on the cost
of the transition it could be learning
how long do it take learn what's the
risk of failure what's the enjoyment
Factor you know what's how what kind of
AC does it take and so on so forth
what's the Comfort level how how subtle
can it be or how loud is it all those
things are important to think about it
but it it really plays into
this and I want to give you some
examples all through I've tried to throw
examples that you can buy today to show
that the future really is there we can
we don't have to start from from a
standing
start but one of the arguments I think
that everybody gets over and over and
over again is it uh no no why should we
do that you can already do that why
would I pay for that why would you add
that to my product look you can always
it in in when we were doing Maya which
is this three package every time I said
here we could really streamline the
interface by making it really simple
this is what people do they're not doing
this and this and that they just want to
do that they say well you can already do
that look and they give the cutest thing
that I fallen asleep by the time they
finish telling me how to get there from
here I want us this propose pretend I
have a consumer electronics product
that's in everybody's home and that
consumer electronics product works
pretty well people love it it works and
they they spend hours and hours and
hours a day with that consumer
electronics product let's pretend we
call it
television and let's pretend I am some
idiot at Sylvania decides I'm going to
put on on make the customer pay for an
entirely second set of controls I'm
going to get a second volume control a
second channel changer and a second
onoff switch and I'm going to make them
pay for it now by the same logic that
every one of you have had by your
management at least once tell you you
can already do that why would we add
that I'm going to say I'm going to do it
anyhow we should do it I'd love to meet
the person who made this argument and
actually got this to happen because what
they
did for that television is the added the
remote
control it's absolutely useless it
brings zero new functionality from any
engineering
perspective but the one thing that
changed was the transaction
cost and think about this for a
minute when we were in that period of
transition if I went to a hotel that did
not have remote controls in the hotel
rooms I never went back to that hotel
room again in the same way today if you
charge for Wi-Fi I don't go back to your
hotel
again it saved you getting up out of
your seat was it good for the health of
North Americans or of people
no but it's sold so it's good for the
health of the investors we got to deal
with those things and by the way this is
the first one I this is one of the first
ones I own this and they were called
clickers because the original ones
worked with acoustic sounds when you
push the buttons down they made a
distinct sound you could each button
made a different sound uh and it was a
clicking sound and it was a microphone
that could sense those and that's how it
it wasn't ir and it wasn't um Bluetooth
and and and but it was that was those
were the first wireless remote controls
but that's why they're called
clickers
now Peter today just said some really
interesting stuff and and he talked
about the right multis and he talked
about taxonomies and multi- channel
multimodal um and and and so on so forth
and and again this says that's good
because I don't have to talk about it
more I just want to make a couple things
to say here's here's another distinction
to help a meaningful dimension of
differentiation that helps us carve up
the space in terms of a meaningful
taxonomy that helps us reduce and
deliver here's
connect this is connect being used to
control the TV as a foreground activity
okay this is my foreground intentional
action my job now my purpose is to a
game therefore everything else get out
of my face this is the interface
right but here's the earlier version of
connect you may not have known this but
but connect's been shipping for
decades and you didn't even notice
perhaps and here's example this is a
Staples other what other than a an early
version of connect is the optical sensor
above the door at the business supply
Center there that opens the door for you
and what other is it than a video game
where the game opens the door for you as
you go out with this with the with the
um with a buggy now this is really
important that is a foreground task my
task is to play the game My foreground
task here again it comes right back to
what you heard earlier today is it is to
get out of the store and get what I
bought into the car to go home and
because I got this buggy in front of me
I can't reach the door to open it
and therefore just opens for me by
proximity sensing that's connect it's a
trivial gesture but here's the thing it
is a computer but unlike it in the Sega
esqu having billions and billions and
billions of switches it has one switch
but that one switch is smarter than any
of your computers or mine for this
purpose because it senses activities in
the environment the same way you sensed
me and acts on accordingly but the
intelligence is in the location and
placement of that switch it's notice
it's not on the bank
vault and what it does is it offloads
complexity adding technology reduces the
interference the task interference that
would otherwise Exist by opening the
door and it come
through it it has
value and to close the loop by the
way and this is why this type of
analytical thinking really helps us do a
better job
is we've only done half the job because
I'm live in Canada you think it's
horrible weather in Ireland for you
should live where I am when in the
springtime you got a foot of sloppy wet
snow and you got paper bags of groceries
and you come up to the back of your car
your keys are in your pocket or your
purse and you've got to put the bags
down on the wet snow to open up the
trunk of the car and then in order to
put these things
in now just let me do a little
arithmetic here my car
whose keys are in my
pocket that even lights up when I walk
past it at night time because it's got
keyless entry
socalled I have to put my bags down get
them soaking wet and get my keys out the
supermarket which I don't even own I
don't even know who owns it opens the
door for me why does my own $30,000 car
treat me worse than the
store and why isn't connect of some
version in the back of the of the car it
recognizes me by my key fob it knows I'm
there I can see with a 3D imaging that
I've got bags in my hand at least in the
supermarket if I have to put my bags
down the floor is
dry and way we go but you realize it's
all about offloading complexity and
saying what's the foreground task what's
your principal task again you've heard
this already this afternoon I don't have
to repeat it except my grandmother was
Irish she's a Doyle and
and so we go but here's another better
example I'll wrap up with this because
this is really important here's my car
this really is my car mine's black but
it's a Ford Escape I gave my BMW which
is about 6 years old to my kid as a
graduation presentent so he could pay
the service bills instead of
me he works for a bank he's okay he can
afford it
and and I bought it because it has sink
in it which is a this the software that
synchronizes now here's my
phone now it's really interesting to me
and this is the most delightful thing I
experience with Computing devices that
makes me whenever I feel upset or
frustrated with what I see in the
software industry this puts a smile on
my face think about this for a minute my
phone it works okay I get in my phone my
car I throw it in the passenger seat I
drive away I turn on the stereo I'm
listen to music everything's good and
the phone rings my hands don't leave the
steering wheel my eyes don't leave the
thing I go bang hello I have a
conversation
all right so you start of
saywell so what well because that was
magic think about this for a minute who
knows what a mobile phone
is hands please chickens come on come on
come on be brave be brave be honest all
right you with the glasses back there
you put up your hands uh where is the
mobile phone in that transaction I just
described
seat on the car seat how many people
agree with him the naive young
man all right let me let me just do a
little bit of electron Jour I am a you
know I am a Scientist please don't try
this at home
however the only thing that's being used
of that phone is the Sim chip the
Bluetooth trans transceiver the battery
and a tiny tiny bit of
logic everything else is in the car the
speech recognition in the car the
address book in the car the speaker in
the car it even turns down the instead
of opening the door it turns down the
stereo so I can hear the call and the
microphone in the
car the correct answer where is it I
think the best answer is
yes and the next best answer or perhaps
even a better answer say who cares are
you having a good
conversation no are you having an
appropriate conversation because notice
if that magic didn't happen I should
lose my driver's license oh because this
brings another thing ask anybody talk to
somebody from Microsoft if you really
want to put the if you really want to
get them going say so what's this uh
interface what's the interaction
language for Windows Phone 7 by the way
you can do the same thing with people
from uh from Apple but they just don't
have a name I gu they do for the
interface Style on on the iPhone but I
just don't know what it is cuz I don't
work Apple but the I'm kidding here's
the deal I no I'm not kidding about not
working for Apple I'm just kidding
here's the
deal if somebody says
Metro just say I beg your pardon mean
when I'm driving my car and I'm using
sink and with a speech that I'm using
metro well guess what you're
not and this is the re-education all of
us have to have no it's Metro when Metro
is
appropriate it's not Metro when Metro is
inappropriate like when you're driving a
car so that if my after I've hung up the
phone and I I have a text I get a voice
hey your wife just no Liz is just texted
you you want to take you want to hear it
yes I'll read it to you bang she reads
it to me it's a woman who's in my car
the computer and I don't know why but
it's it's okay um my wife approves
and when she's speaking to me after
she's finished she says would you like
to reply yes okay start dictating I
dictate would you like me to dick read
back what I think you said yes I have to
say honestly it's never made a mistake
so yes send
it then here's the best
part
I my son
phones I park the car I'm still in a
conversation I pick up the phone off the
seat turn the as after I've turned the
key off and I just go like this and walk
down the
street and 90% of the technology at the
local end supporting my call just
changed completely
seamlessly and
transparently as I disaggregated so I
had disaggregation I don't have all the
fancy speech stuff anymore and I'm back
to
Metro but because everything changed 90%
of the technology changed I had zero
change in the continuity of the
conversation and so when anybody says
your user interface has to be consistent
just say give them this example example
right I tell these stories because
stories are the most original form of
viral marketing make them your own
pretend you you invented it place it in
your own context personalize it but have
these in your hip pocket so you can say
no consistency unless you can guarantee
there's consistency in context location
and people and task in when people use
this application or this device then
then
forget this notion of consistency other
than consistency in quality of
experience
and consistency in
value those are the only consistencies
that matter because they're the ones
expressed in human
terms that's the stylesheet we should
write
first all right we're wrapping
up this I love this right you can't
depend on your eyes when your
imagination's out of focus these things
we've been doing today just going on the
ship tonight the reason to get out of
town get out of your computer is to help
our imagination
grow PR said the only true Voyage of
Discovery is not to go to different
places but to see through different
eyes and our job is to be the best damn
what do you call them OB not
Obstetricians uh what's an eye doctor
anyhow optometrists in the
world and with that I'm going to stop
say thank you very much and I'm happy to
take
questions
