[Music]
I'm Orchard Orchard misra I'm a
professor and the school of information
systems at SMU and I also currently
serve as our associate E in a research
and I direct a center on smart nation
analytics so I think the big idea is
that Tina for the last 20 30 years we've
taught of computation is something we do
first with desktop machines and then
more with our mobile phones and maybe
our smart watches but computation and
sensing is now moving to what's called a
pervasive world where it's all around us
so you know the table that on which we
work will have computing embedded in it
you know the coffee maker of the fridge
is going to have computing in it so this
requires new ways of sensing and new
ways of humans to interact with these
devices and that is what excites me most
about my research we recognize going
forward that one of the big challenge as
sensors proliferate around us is that we
just won't be able to recharge them
continuously you know nobody likes to
take you know a wearable device off
their hand and then recharge it twice a
day so a lot of my new work is looking
at the possibility of building ultra low
energy wearable devices or battery less
wearable devices so one of the projects
that I'm really fascinated by right now
is this ability to build a wearable
device that really has no battery and
the way it's charged its charged by the
transmissions from a regular Wi-Fi
access point now the big innovation in
that is that most access point
transmissions because they're
omnidirectional they spread all around
you the amount of energy you can harvest
is no more than one to two micro watts
that's too minuscule for anything
realistic however if you're able to
direct the beam using some electronic
beamforming technologies you're able to
harvest almost hundred times more power
so what we've demonstrated recently is
the ability to build a wearable device
that's on your wrist that has no battery
that is charged by this beamforming
technology
from conventional Wi-Fi access points
but that you can run and it can capture
all the various hand movements you do in
your office during the day so whether
you're typing whether you're having a
drink water you know whether you're sort
of pointing at things on a whiteboard
you're able to capture all of these
energy and human behavior without ever
needing to replace the battery so one of
the other projects that's actually going
on and I'm very pleased that it's also
being implemented in our SMU gym and so
in the gym what we've taken is you know
you have these weight stacks we put a
very simple sensor it's a magnetic meter
which is magnetic sensor and
accelerometer which measures the
vertical up-and-down movement and by
using the data from the simple sensor
we're able to figure out with pretty
high over 95% accuracy the amount of
weight you lift the exercise you do
whether you're doing a bicep curl or you
know shoulder push press or so on and
also most interesting ly the user of the
individual who's actually doing the
workout because it turns out each of us
have a unique way of performing this
workout now the reason this excites me
is this opens up the possibility that
with just instrumenting a few devices
and you not having to wear anything to
the gym we can begin to digitally track
sort of qualify the workout that you're
going through and after that one can
start to personalize the recommendations
so you can think of this as an
electronic digital coach for you telling
you that you maybe you're working out
too fast or you're lifting too much
weight it can give you more accurate
target feedback so it reduces a risk of
injury maximizes the effectiveness of
your workout and in general by engaging
with you admits in real life
that you will continue to work out so I
think that of healthy living and
distraction free living are two benefits
of Altis pervasive technology for
individual consumers
you
