[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
hi there I'm Jonathan Strickland a
senior writer here at howstuffworks.com
and host of tech stuff and I wanted to
talk to you today about you ubiquitous
Computing and the pervasive internet so
what are these things well ubiquitous
Computing is this idea of computers
being around us and part of everything
we do pretty much from the time we get
up in the morning to the time we go to
bed and sometimes even when we sleep it
kind of comes from this idea of well
before we had this this Computing world
where there were a lot of people using
just a few machines so you would have to
share time on a machine in order to get
access to it you would actually have
groups of people using terminals that
would each get access one at a time to a
supercomputer we called this time
sharing then we move to a model where
it's one user one machine that's kind of
the model we're in now although we're
shifting away from that where you would
have a computer and it would be a
dedicated machine just for you you can
use it however much you like and you're
not sharing it with anyone else well
then we've got the one user lots of
machines that's where we're headed to
now a lot of people now own multiple
computers they also May own a smartphone
perhaps some other mobile devices that
have internet connectivity built into
them and Computing built into them
that's the idea behind ubiquitous
Computing we build computers into other
things around us so that we can interact
with them in a new way now right now we
can see it in things like smartphones
video gaming consoles computers that
sort of thing but we're going to see
more and more of that build into things
like basic appliances perhaps even the
clothing we wear will have some of these
elements sewn into them using electronic
Fabrics now if that sounds a little too
far out to you just remember that the
smartphone alone can really add a lot of
functionality to ubiquitous Computing
imagine downloading an app to your phone
that when it interacts with your home
network allows you to control things
like your environmental controls in your
house this isn't Science Fiction it's
happening right now it'll just be a
little while longer before we get to a
point where when you move one from one
room to the next the climate controls
change automatically based upon your
preferences might come into a little bit
of conflict when there's a bunch of
people in the room and all of their
their preferences are at odds with one
another but we'll work that out as we
get to it now pervasive internet is a
related idea this is an idea where
internet connectivity is universal
pretty much anywhere you go you'll be
able to log into the internet we're
getting closer and closer to that too
although we still have problems with
that you might find dead spots where you
have no Wi-Fi or cellular service and
getting connected to the internet might
be a little difficult you might have to
have a satellite hookup which is not
cheap but we're getting closer to having
a pervasive internet experience and the
idea here is that between ubiquitous
Computing and pervasive internet we'll
be able to network everything your
entire experience through life will be
completely networked all around you
which means that you'll be able to
dictate the experience you have in life
based upon the technology surrounding
you at any given time so let's say that
you like the the room a certain
temperature you like certain music you
like certain kinds of food well your
refrigerator is going to tell you when
you're low on your favorite ingredients
your room is going to adjust to the
right kind of temperature as soon as you
walk in your iPod or other MP3 player is
going to start playing the music you
like as soon as you pick it up these are
the ideas that we're moving toward we're
not that far away from it we're already
seeing hints of it in our daily lives
but trust me in 5 or 10 years it's going
to be everywhere you're going to love it
for more on this and thousands of other
topics visit howstuffworks.com and don't
forget to check out our other podcasts
free on
iTunes
