hello welcome to this course on
pre-processing data for machine learning
my name is Sarah Godot and I'll be
helping you learn the skills necessary
for preparing data for modeling let's
jump right in data pre-processing comes
after you've cleaned up your data and
after you've done some exploratory
analysis to understand your data set
once you understand your data set you'll
probably have some idea about how you
want to model your data machine learning
models in Python require numerical input
so if your dataset has categorical
variables you'll need to transform them
think of data pre-processing is a
prerequisite for modeling I'm going to
walk through some basics and pandas well
so this should be review if it isn't go
check out other courses related to
pandas we're going to be working with
some pretty straightforward files in
this course the important line here is
the hiking dot headline the first thing
you're going to want to do with any data
set is look at it it's useful to be able
to generate a list of the features
present in your data set you can easily
see the columns in a data set with the
columns attribute you can see their data
type with a D type attribute finally you
can quickly generate some basic stats
about a data frame like the mean
standard deviation and quartiles using
the describe method one of the first
steps you can take to pre-process your
data is to remove missing data there's a
lot of ways to deal with missing data
but here we're only going to cover ways
to remove either columns or rows with
missing data if you wanted to drop all
rows from a data frame that contain
missing values you can do that with drop
n/a you can drop specific rows by
passing index labels to the drop
function which defaults to dropping rows
usually you want to focus on dropping a
particular column especially if all or
most of us values are missing you can
use the drop method as well so the
parameters are different the first
parameter is the column name in this
case a we have to specify access equals
1 in order to designate that we want to
drop a column what if we want to drop
rows where data is missing in a
particular column we can do this with
the help of bully
indexing which is a way to filter a data
frame based on certain values instead of
indexing a data frame using column or
row names you can set a condition to
filter your data frame by to return a
specific set of data for example if we
wanted only rows in this data frame
where column B is equal to 7 we can
filter it by selecting or column B is
equal to 7 first let's take a look at
how many null values we have in column B
using is null to get null values and
then using some to output a count so we
have two missing values to filter those
out we can simply use the not null
method on column B as a boolean index
this will result in a data frame where
all rows have a non null value for
column B now it's your turn to get rid
of missing data give it a try
