feature engineering is a very important
process in the field of data analysis
and machine learning and I am very
excited to announce this new series of
tutorials where I will be going over
different feature engineering techniques
and we'll be writing Python code along
with the exercises with that let's first
understand what exactly is feature
engineering there was a study published
by Forbes magazine on what data
scientists spend most of their time on
and from this chart it was very clear
that they spend majority of that time in
data cleaning because in the real world
the data looks pretty messy as shown in
this funny picture here and you need to
clean that data so that you can feed
that clean data to your machine learning
model machine learning model will not
work if the data is messy even if you
are not using machine learning and doing
simple data analysis still you need to
clean data so data cleaning is very very
important and that's where data analyst
and data scientist spend most of their
time on and feature engineering is
something that helps you with data
cleaning let me give you example let's
say you are studying the home prices and
these are the home prices in the city of
Bangalore in India to do the analysis on
this one of the things you can do is you
can create a new column which will be
price per square feet just to kind of
get a feel of your incoming data set now
this data set can be coming from
internet from the variety of sources and
it can have errors okay
it can help problems so by creating this
new column you are trying to analyze if
you have any data errors all right and
once you have this new column now you
can use either your domain knowledge so
if you have a business manager that you
are working closely with he would say
that in Bangalore you cannot get a home
at a rate of price per square foot equal
to 3,500 square foot so when you see
this particular data point highlighted
which has price per square foot as 500
it clearly looks
lion like an error okay and this error
you detected by using a domain knowledge
you can also use visualization and by
plotting this bar chart this data point
clearly comes out to be different than
the rest of the data point you can also
use mathematics and statistics where you
can use techniques like to standard
deviation or to detect these kind of
spatial observation now this data point
here is called outlier and these three
techniques listed on the right hand side
are all basically the outlier detection
techniques if you have followed my
pandas tutorial we also looked at how to
handle missing values sometimes when you
receive your incoming data set it might
have missing values here for these two
data points the bedrooms are missing so
what you can do is just take a median
which will be three and fill those
missing values okay so handling missing
values is also very important during the
process of data cleaning we also had a
tutorial on one hot encoding in my
machine learning series where we replace
the text data with numeric data here the
text data is down so these are the
property prices in different towns in
the state of New Jersey and when you
want to build a machine learning model
the model doesn't understand text so you
have to convert that into numeric values
and we converted this text column into
these three numerical columns and this
process is called
one hot encoding so these three
techniques that we covered which is
outlier detection one hot encoding and
handling missing values these are the
few examples of feature engineering so
feature engineering is basically a
process of extracting useful features
from raw data
using mathematic mathematics statistics
and domain knowledge we have seen
advancements especially in the area of
neural networks where you can auto
detect the features the meaningful
features all right so the examples that
I showed you we use domain knowledge
mathematical statistics to extract
meaningful features out of our data set
but these processes were manual but
there have been some automated ways of
detecting these features and we'll be
covering all of that in this feature
engineering tutorial series so I hope
this gets you excited enough and I will
see you in the next tutorial thank you
