hi and welcome to biostat squid the
topic of this video is principal
component analysis and how to use it to
interpret biological data let's Dive In
so imagine you want to study aging and
you want to find out what factors
contribute to a longer or shorter
lifespan
start with a data set that looks like
this let's say you have data from 20
people and the age when they passed away
and we have many factors like their
height weight sex if they smoked or not
about their diets anyway we have 200
factors
so in order to understand the data we
need to visualize it first but we cannot
visualize so many dimensions all at once
we could for example pick two factors
and plot them for example we might think
smoking and cholesterol levels in blood
might be high contributors to your life
expectancy
but we're losing some possible valuable
information contained in other factors
of the data such as weight or Diet
is there a way of taking into account
all factors
an amazing solution is principal
component analysis or PCA for short
CA takes all of the factors combines
them in a smart way and produces new
factors these new factors are called
principal components
and it does that in such a way that if
you focus on just the first few
components you will keep most of the
information from the data set
going back to our example imagine we
computed principal components analysis
on our data set and reduced our 200
Dimensions to five principal components
this is amazing we were able to simplify
the data much more and what's important
we didn't lose much information
okay but we cannot represent five
dimensions in a 2d plot the nice thing
about PCA is that principal components
are ranked from most important to least
important so let's just plot pc1 and PC2
this is our PCA plot and each point is a
person from our data set
what if we colored the points by age
we can see that our samples already
clustered together really nicely by age
those people who live longer seem to be
grouped together those who live shorter
tend to be grouped together
so PCA took into account all our
biological factors transformed them into
a new variables called principal
components and if we just take the first
two we actually already see some
interesting Trends in our data
but what about the other PCS how do we
know if the first two principal
components are enough to capture most of
the information or variance in the data
set
well the solution to this is a screen
plot screen plot tells you how much
variance of the data set basically how
much information is explained with each
principal component in this case the
first principal component explains 50
percent of the variance in our data set
This Is Amazing by the way with actual
real life data sets if you get close to
40 percent you might as well throw a
party anyways what this says is that 50
of the variation of a person's lifespan
can be explained by principal component
1. if you add principal component 2
that's another 35 percent which makes 85
percent of course it depends on your
objectives but explaining 85 percent of
variance in life expectancy sounds quite
nice to me ideally we want to get around
90 variance with just two to three
components so that enough information is
retained while we can still visualize
our data um on a plot okay but what is
exactly principle component One what
does it mean as a biologist who's
interpreting biological data you are
interested in knowing which variables or
biological factors are responsible for
the patterns you see among the
observations or the people
we would like to know which variables
are influential and also how the
variables are correlated this is given
by the principal component loadings
basically each variable gets a loading
or weight for each principal component
which tells you how much it contributes
to that PC
we can also plot the loadings to see the
relationship between our 200 variables
let's just plot some of them
for example for pc1 which again is the
most important PC we might expect to see
variables like greasy diet obesity heart
rate or frequent exercise to have really
large weights because they contribute a
lot and maybe variables like how many
times you brush your teeth a day have a
lower weight so each of our 200
variables gets a loading score or weight
for each principal component
you might have noticed that variables
contributing similar information are
grouped together
this is part of the magic of PCA
variables that are positively correlated
for example greasy diets obesity are
grouped together
correlated just means that when the
numerical variable of 1 increases or
decreases the numerical value of the
other variable has a tendency to change
in the same way
on the other hand when variables are
negatively or inversely correlated they
are positioned on opposite sides of the
plot origin in diagonally opposed
quadrants for example your resting heart
rate and height are inversely correlated
meaning that taller people tend to have
lower resting rates compared to Shorter
people
moreover the distance to the origin also
gives you information the further away a
variable is from the origin the stronger
the impact it has on the model for
example here obesity blood pressure and
average heart rate seem to be good
variables to separate longer lifespans
from shorter life spans
so this loading plot is a great way of
seeing the relationship between our 200
variables at the same time it lets you
know what variables are influential and
also how the variables are correlated
okay so back to our PCA plot how do we
use this to draw conclusions from our
data set
let's have a look at this other example
we have data from the gene expression
profile of 50 different patients with
lung cancer and for each patient we
measured the expression of 30 000 genes
we could plot the expression of genes
individually across all patients but we
cannot visualize the expression of all
genes across all patients all at once or
can we to get a general overview of our
data a good place to start is with PCA
so this is our PCA each point is one of
our patients patients with similar gene
expression profiles are now clustered
together just glancing at this plot we
can see that there are three clusters of
patients
this means that overall we have three
distinct gene expression profiles and
this is very interesting because it
might mean that this group of patients
will respond better to drug X and this
other group of patients will respond
better to radiotherapy
now the orange and green clusters are
different based on pc1
so the differences in gene expression
profiles are probably due to genes that
have heavy influences on pc1 remember
that the loadings tell us which genes
have heavier weights on the principal
component
the pink and green clusters are
different based on principle component
2. so the genes that influence PC2 are
more likely to be responsible for this
but remember principal components are
actually ranked by how much they
describe the data pc1 is more important
than PC2 so actually differences between
clusters along pc1 axis are larger than
the similar looking distances along PC2
axis so here clusters green and orange
are more different amongst each other
than clusters green and pink
wait but there are two principal
components enough to represent all our
30 000 genes
perhaps you remember how to check this
that's right we need to take a look at
the screen plot in this case the first
two principal components cover most of
the variation in our data set so they're
good enough
and this is one of the first steps of
analysis as you can see PCA is a great
way of representing large data sets to
observe Trends jumps clusters and
outliers from here we would of course
Trace back to find out which genes make
the Clusters different from one another
so to sum up PCA is a great way of
summarizing large data sets with many
dimensions into less Dimensions while
retaining as much information as
possible
it captures the essence of the data into
a few principal components
usually it's enough to keep just the
first two or three principal components
if they explain enough percent of the
data set
to check how much variance or
information the first few principal
components hold you should look at a
screen plot how do we read a BCA
observations with similar overall
profiles are clustered together pc1
captures the most information from our
data set followed by PC2 and then PC3
and so on this means that clusters
separated along the x-axis are more
different than clusters separated along
the y-axis by a similar distance
if you're interested in understanding
how PCA actually works so how it is able
to understand and summarize the data
leave me a comment down below I will try
my best to explain it with zero math so
you can get an idea of how it does it
if you like this video let me know and
if you don't want to miss another video
from biostat squid don't forget to
subscribe and that is all for today see
you in the next one
