in this video you'll learn to apply t
distributed stochastic neighbor
embedding or t-sne while this may sound
scary it's just a powerful technique to
visualize high dimensional data using
feature extraction t-sne will maximize
the distance in two-dimensional space
between observations that are most
different in a high dimensional space
because of this observations that are
similar we'll be close to one another
and may become clustered this is what
happens when we apply tsne to the iris
dataset
we can see how to set those a species
from the separate cluster while the
other two are close together and
therefore more similar however iris
dataset only has four dimensions to
start with so let's try this on a more
challenging dataset our answer female
body measurements dataset has 99
dimensions before we apply tsne we're
going to remove all non numeric columns
from the dataset by passing a list with
unwanted column names to the pandas
dataframe drop method t-sne doesn't work
with monomer data such we could use a
little trick like one hot encoding to
get around this but we're using a
different approach here will create a
t-sne model with learning rate 50 while
fitting to the dataset t-sne will try
different configurations and evaluate
these with an internal cost function hi
learning rates will cause the algorithm
to be more adventurous in the
configuration it tries out while low
learning rates will cost to be more
conservative usually learning rates fall
in the 10 to 1,000 range next we'll fit
and transform the t-sne model to an
emeritus set
projector high dimensional data set onto
an umpire a with two dimensions we'll
assign these two dimensions back to
original data set name enum X&Y
we can now start plotting this data
using C point scatterplot method on the
X and y columns we just added the
resulting plot shows one big cluster and
in a sense this could have been expected
there are no distinct groups of female
body shapes with little in between
instead there is a more continuous
distribution of body shapes and thus one
big cluster however using the
categorical features we excluded from
the analysis we can check if there are
interesting structural patterns within
this cluster the body mass index or BMI
is a method to categorize people into
weight groups regardless of their height
I added a column BMI class to the data
set with the BMI category for every
person if we use this column name for
the hue which is the color of the c1
scatterplot be able to see that the
weight class
indeed shows an interesting pattern when
the 90-plus features in the dataset
t-sne picked up that weight explains a
lot of variants in a data set and use
that to spread out points along x axis
with underweight people on the left and
overweight people on the right
you've also added a column with hide
categories to the data set if we use
this hide class to control the hue of
the points we'll be able to see that in
the vertical Direction variance is
explained by a person's height so all
people are at the top of the plot and
shorter people at the bottom
conclusion the acini helps to visually
explore dataset and identify the most
important drivers of variants in body
shapes now it's your turn to use Tizen e
on the combined male and female
